WELCOME TO
THE WEDNESDAY NOVEMBER 18TH
REGULAR MEETING OF THE ANAPRA
PLANNING COMMISSION.
MY NAME IS DANIEL LITCH.
I'LL BE CHAIRING TONIGHT'S
MEETING FOR DETAILED
INFORMATION ON MEETING
PROCEDURES.
PLEASE REVIEW THE FULL PRONATE
MEETING AGENDA WHICH IS
PROVIDED AT EACH END OF THE
DAIS MANAGER LEONARD WOULD YOU
PLEASE CALL THE ROLE?
>> OF COURSE, COMMISSIONER
WHICH PRESENT COMMISSIONER
RAYBURN'S HERE COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT HERE.
>> COMMISSIONER LEE HERE.
COMMISSIONER DISH HERE.
>> COMMISSIONER MILLS'
COMMISSIONER WETHERBEE HERE.
COMMISSIONER ADAMS HERE.
COMMISSIONER HERE WE HAVE A
QUORUM.
>> THANK YOU MR. LEINERT.
MAY I HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE
TONIGHT'S AGENDA MOVE BY
COMMISSIONER LEE SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER ABRAM'S ALL THOSE
IN FAVOR OF THE MOTION.
>> PLEASE SAY I ANY OPPOSED
SAME SIGN THE MOTION CARRIES.
MAY I HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE
THE MINUTES OF THE NOVEMBER
5TH, 2012 FIVE MEETING?
ALL RIGHT.
MOVE BY COMMISSIONER ABRAM'S
SECOND BY COMMISSIONER LEE.
>> IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION
OF THE MINUTES FROM THAT
MEETING SEEING NONE ALL THOSE
IN FAVOR OF THE MOTION PLEASE
SAY I ANY OPPOSE THE MOTION
CARRIES.
NEXT UP ARE REPORTS FROM OR
EXCUSE ME TO THE PLANNING
COMMISSION AND WRITTEN
COMMUNICATIONS WILL START IF
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH IS READY
WITH COUNCIL MEMBER DISH.
YES.
SO LAST NIGHT COUNCIL APPROVED
THE REZONING OF ONE ACRE
OF LAND FROM TOWNSHIP TO I
THINK IT WAS ARWANI AND ALSO
APPROVED THE THE SORT OF CLEAN
PRE ZONING TO AH FOR FOR THE
VILLAGE OUT TO THE OPEN SPACE
THAT'S THEIR PRIVATELY OWNED
AND S SORRY OUR S WAS PULLED
FROM THE AGENDA
NEXT WE'LL HAVE
THE MANAGER REPORT BY MR
LEINERT JUST TWO NEW UPDATES I
WANT TO SHARE WITH THE PLANNING
COMMITTEE.
WE HAVE TWO NEW COLLEAGUES ON
OUR TEAM THAT YOU'LL HOPEFULLY
BE SEEING AT A FUTURE MEETING.
EMMA BERGER WHO MANY OF YOU MET
ON OUR MOBILE TOUR IS NOW PART
TIME CITY PLANNER WITH OUR TEAM
HAPPY TO TRANSITION HER FROM
INTERN TO FULL FLEDGED PLANNER
.
AND ERIC POTOcNIK IS A NEW
ZONING COORDINATOR ON OUR TEAM.
SO IF YOU SEE THOSE NAMES AND
IN ABOUT THEY ARE VALUE NEW
VALUED COLLEAGUES AND HOPEFULLY
WE'LL GET THEM TO INTRODUCE TO
YOU AT THE PLANNING COMMISSION
SOON.
ALSO JUST A NOTE FOR MEMBERS
OF THE PUBLIC BOTH HERE AND
WATCHING.
I DO WANT TO NOTE THAT WE DO
HAVE A DISCUSSION THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ON THIS
AGENDA.
HOWEVER, IT IS NOT A PUBLIC
HEARING ITEM.
SO IF YOU DO WISH TO ADDRESS
THE PLANNING COMMISSION ON THAT
ITEM, I WOULD RECOMMEND YOU DO
THAT AT THE EITHER THE EARLY
PUBLIC COMMENT OR PUBLIC
COMMENT AT THE END OF THE
MEETING.
>> THANK YOU MR LEINERT.
DO ANY COMMISSION EXCUSE ME DO
ANY OTHER COMMISSION OFFICERS
OR LIAISON'S HAVE ANYTHING TO
REPORT WRITTEN COMMUNICATIONS
ARE INCLUDED IN TODAY'S PACKET.
THIS BRINGS US TO AGENDA ITEM
NUMBER SIX PUBLIC COMMENT.
>> THIS IS NOT AN OPPORTUNITY
FOR INDIVIDUALS TO SPEAK UP TO
THREE MINUTES ON ISSUES NOT
LISTED AS A PUBLIC HEARING OR
DEDICATE A PUBLIC COMMENT
PERIOD ON OUR AGENDA.
>> WE WILL FIRST HEAR FROM
THOSE OF YOU WHO ARE PRESENT
HERE IN THE CHAMBERS.
>> THEN WE WILL HEAR
FROM
REMOTE PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK
REMOTELY.
>> PRESS STAR NINE IF ON PHONE
OR USE THE RAISED HAND FEATURE
IF USING ZOOM FOR PHONE ACCESS
DIAL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT
FIVE THREE FIVE TWO FOUR SEVEN
AND IN OUR MEETING ID NINE
SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR
ONE TWO TWO SIX CITY STAFF WILL
IDENTIFY CALLERS BY THE LAST
THREE DIGITS OF THEIR PHONE
NUMBER OR BY NAME IF THEY ARE
USING ZOOM YOU WILL HEAR AN
ANNOUNCEMENT WHEN IT'S YOUR
TURN TO SPEAK PLEASE MOVE TO A
QUIET AREA MUTE ANY BACKGROUND
NOISE BEFORE SPEAKING FOR ALL
PARTICIPANTS PLEASE STATE YOUR
NAME AND ADDRESS AT THE
BEGINNING OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANY ONE PRESENT IN
CHAMBERS WHO WOULD LIKE TO
ADDRESS THE PLANNING COMMISSION
AT THIS TIME?
MY NAME IS JEFF CROCKET.
MY WIFE CHRISTINE AND I LIVED
FIVE OR SIX YEARS KINGSLEE IN
THE FOURTH WARD FOR FORTY FIVE
YEARS.
THE FOURTH WARD HISTORIC
DISTRICT WAS CREATED IN 1983
AND SHORTLY THEREAFTER IN 1984
THE FOURTH WARD NEIGHBORHOOD
ASSOCIATION WAS FORMED IN
ADDITION TO SUPPORTING HISTORIC
PRESERVATION INITIATIVES AND
DOWNTOWNER NARBOROUGH WE HAVE
WORKED CLOSELY WITH THE INTER
COOPERATIVE COUNCIL AND YOU
EVMS BEYOND THE DIAG PROGRAM TO
IMPROVE LIFE IN THE NEARBY
DOWNTOWN FOR ALL RESIDENTS
WHICH INCLUDES SUPPORT FOR
LOCAL BUSINESSES SUCH AS THE
PEOPLE'S FOOD CO-OP ZINGERMAN'S
AND THE KOREATOWN SHOPS.
THE BOARD OF THE FOURTH WARD IS
DEEPLY CONCERNED ABOUT THE
TRANSITION DESIGNATION FOR OUR
AREA.
IT JUST DOESN'T MAKE SENSE TO
US.
THE FOURTH WARD IS ONE OF THE
DENSEST NEIGHBORHOODS IN THE
CITY AND ITS DENSITY HAS
STEADILY INCREASED BOTH FROM
NEW DEVELOPMENTS SUCH AS 530
NORTH DIVISION AND FROM THE
REDESIGN OF INTERIORS WHICH ARE
NOT SUBJECT TO HISTORIC
DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
THE DECISION TO DESIGNATE OUR
AREA TRANSITION DISTRICT WAS
NOT MADE WITH ANY INPUT FROM
THE OLD FOURTH WARD
NEIGHBORHOOD ASSOCIATION.
WE SHARE THIS CONCERN WITH THE
OLD WEST SIDE ASSOCIATION AND
THE BROADWAY HISTORIC DISTRICT.
AS A RESULT WE HAVE JOINED
TOGETHER TO FORM THE ANN ARBOR
PRESERVATION ALLIANCE NOW OVER
100 STRONG TO EDUCATE CITIZENS
ABOUT THE NUMEROUS BENEFITS
THAT HISTORIC DISTRICTS
HISTORIC PRESERVATION BRING TO
THE CITIZENS OF ANN ARBOR.
THE APA HAS SUBMITTED SEVERAL
DOCUMENTS TO THE PORTAL THAT
DETAIL THE NUMEROUS BENEFITS
OF HISTORIC PRESERVATION AND
ILLUSTRATE HOW GRAND RAPIDS,
KALAMAZOO, MADISON, PORTLAND,
BOULDER AND MINNEAPOLIS HAVE
EFFECTIVELY INCORPORATED THE
BENEFITS OF HISTORIC DISTRICTS
INTO THEIR MASTER PLANS.
THESE DOCUMENTS ALSO
CONCLUSIVELY SHOW HOW HISTORIC
DISTRICTS SUPPORT THE FOUR CORE
VALUES OF THE CLUB INCLUDING
AFFORDABILITY, EQUITY,
SUSTAINABILITY AND DYNAMISM.
WE URGE YOU TO INCLUDE THESE
BENEFITS IN YOUR FOURTH DRAFT A
FEW THESE BENEFITS ARE OLDER
NEIGHBORHOODS CAN BE MORE
AFFORDABLE KEEPING OLDER
HOUSING MAINTAIN AND OCCUPIED
BOTH IN HISTORIC DISTRICTS AND
ELSEWHERE NEEDS TO BE A CENTRAL
STRATEGY FOR HOUSING
AFFORDABILITY.
THE CHANCES OF A DWELLING BEING
UNIT BEING RAISED ARE REPLACED
BY A MORE AFFORDABLE UNIT IS
VIRTUALLY NON-EXISTENT.
HISTORIC NEIGHBORHOODS PROVIDE
ECONOMIC DIVERSITY AT THE
NEIGHBORHOOD LEVEL.
HISTORIC DISTRICTS ARE MORE
DENSELY POPULATED THAN OTHER
SINGLE FAMILY NEIGHBORHOODS AND
HAVE A GREATER VARIETY
OF HOUSING TYPES INCLUDING
RENTALS.
THEY WERE DESIGNED FROM THE
BEGINNING FOR MIXED USES.
THEY PROVIDE DENSITY AT A HUMAN
SCALE.
>> TOURISTS ARE DRAWN TO
RESTAURANTS, ARTS, LOCAL SHOPS,
SENSE OF PLACE AND CULTURE
EVENTS IN HISTORIC DOWNTOWNS IN
ANN ARBOR, THE INTERIOR
PRESERVATION ALLIANCE STANDS
READY TO WORK WITH ALL OF YOU.
THE PLANNING COMMISSION UPON
YOUR INVITATION TO CREATE AN
HISTORIC DISTRICT STATEMENT
THAT MEETS THE STANDARD SET BY
THESE SIX COMMUNITIES.
>> THANKS FOR YOUR
CONSIDERATION.
THANK YOU
.
ADAM JUSZKIEWICZ, LAS VEGAS
DRIVE IN THE FOURTH WARD NOT
NOT THE OLD BUT THE NEW FOURTH
WARD.
I DON'T HAVE SPECIFIC CHANGES
TO SUGGEST TONIGHT ON THE DRAFT
PLAN BUT WANTED TO STATE MY
SUPPORT FOR THE CURRENT DRAFT
IN THE PROCESS THUS FAR AND
HOLD THIS PLAN SUPPORTS THE
VALUES OF AN AFFORDABLE
SUSTAINABLE, EQUITABLE AND
DYNAMIC ANN ARBOR FOR ALL IT'S
BEEN A CONTENTIOUS BUT ROBUST
ENGAGEMENT PROCESS AND
INCORPORATING VOICES FROM
ACROSS OUR COMMUNITY IS
IMPORTANT.
I'M GLAD YOU'VE BEEN ABLE TO DO
THAT IN THIS DRAFT EVEN THOUGH
THEIR FEEDBACK IS OFTEN
CONTRADICTORY AND I HAVEN'T
ALWAYS AGREED WITH SOME
OF THOSE VOICES.
I HOPE AS WE WRAP UP THE PLAN
AND MOVE ON TO ZONING AFTER THE
HOLIDAYS WE CAN HAVE A BIT OF A
RESET AS A COMMUNITY AND COME
TO THE TABLE WITH A LITTLE LESS
ANGER AND A LITTLE MORE
POSITIVITY AND CREATIVE ENERGY.
I'M EXCITED TO SEE WHERE WE GO
FROM HERE.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
CATHY GRISWOLD.
ONE OF THE TERMS WE HEAR
FREQUENTLY WHEN WE'RE PLANNING
FOR THE CITY IS WALKABLE
NEIGHBORHOODS.
IT'S SO IMPORTANT TO HAVE
WALKABLE NEIGHBORHOODS AND WE
DESCRIBE WALKABLE NEIGHBORHOODS
HAVING SCHOOLS AND RESTAURANTS
AND GROCERY STORES.
AND I CAN TELL YOU I'VE LIVED
IN MY NEIGHBORHOOD FOR OVER
FORTY TWO YEARS AND WE HAVE ALL
THOSE THINGS.
WE HAVE MULTIPLE SCHOOLS.
WE HAVE A KVASS, WE HAVE A
BUSHES, WE HAVE MANY OTHER
STORES BUT WHAT WE DON'T HAVE
IS PEDESTRIAN SAFETY AND I CAN
TELL YOU IN THE LAST TWO YEARS
WE HAVE HAD TWO SERIOUS INJURY
ACCIDENTS OF OLDER WOMEN NOT
QUITE AS OLD AS ME BUT OLDER
WOMEN AND ONE FATALITY AGAIN AN
OLDER WOMAN.
NOW THIS IS WITHIN ONE MILE MY
HOUSE.
THIS IS COMPLETELY UNACCEPTABLE
TO OF THOSE CRASHES OCCURRED AT
THE CORNER OF GREEN AND
GLAISHER WAY, AN INTERSECTION
THAT I HAVE SUBMITTED NO LESS
THAN TEN REQUESTS FOR
IMPROVEMENT.
I WAS SUBMITTING REQUESTS FOR
IMPROVEMENTS BEFORE TO FIX IT
EVEN WAS HERE.
SO A LOT OF THEM ARE SIMPLY
EMAILS AFTER SOMEONE WAS
CRITICALLY INJURED A FRIEND
OF MINE IN AUGUST OF 2003 I GOT
A RESPONSE BACK FROM CITY
ENGINEERING THAT IT REALLY WAS
A DANGEROUS INTERSECTION AND IT
WASN'T AT YOUR REGULAR
INTERSECTION BECAUSE THERE WERE
NINETY DEGREE ANGLES FOR THE
TWO STREETS AND SO THEN I PUT
IN ANOTHER TO FIX IT AND I SAID
I CAN'T SEE THE CYCLIST IN THE
BIKE LANE WHEN I'M COMING UP
GALATIA WAY.
SO THEY'RE GOING TO WORK ON
THAT.
I THINK THE MAGIC WORD IS
CYCLISTS AND THEN YOU DO GET AT
LEAST AN EMAIL BACK EVEN IF NO
RESPONSE.
SO WHAT CAN WE DO?
WE NEED SOME SIDEWALKS.
WE NEED SITE DISTANCE ALL THE
VEGETATION IS NOT JUST OVER THE
BIKE LANES AND OVER THE
SIDEWALK.
IN SOME CASES IT IS OVER THE
CURB AT INTERSECTIONS WE NEED
LIGHTING.
>> WE HAVE SCHOOL CROSSWALKS
WITHOUT ADEQUATE LIGHTING AND
WE HAVE A NEW CROSSWALK THAT
WAS PUT IN ACROSS WALDEN WOOD
WHERE THEY DID THE ELABORATE
IMPROVEMENTS TO IRAQ, MOST
OF WHICH IS REALLY GREAT.
BUT YOU DO ELABORATE
IMPROVEMENTS ON ONE STREET AND
YOU CAN'T AFFORD TO DO ANYTHING
ON THE OTHER STREETS OR ACROSS
THE WORLD AND WE WOULD WHICH IS
IN THE SCHOOL WALK ZONE WE HAVE
AN UNLIT CROSSWALK SIGNS FOR
OUR SCHOOL CROSSWALKS WHEN I
COMPLAINED ABOUT ONE WAIT A
MINUTE I DIDN'T COMPLAIN WHEN I
PUT IN A TICKET FOR ONE OF THE
SCHOOL CROSSWALKS.
THE CITY'S RESPONSE WAS TO
REMOVE THE SCHOOL CROSSWALK.
>> SO NOW WE HAVE A CROSSWALK
WITHOUT A SCHOOL CROSSWALK SIGN
BUT I'M LOOKING FOR GREAT
IMPROVEMENTS AS WE MOVE FORWARD
WITH THE COMMUNITY MUSIC
COMPREHEND LAND USE PLAN WHICH
I HOPE THE CITY TAKES
SERIOUSLY.
>> THANK THANK YOU
.
>> MY NAME IS SUSAN KAUFMAN.
I LIVE AT 630 5TH STREET AND
I'M A MEMBER OF THE ANN ARBOR
PRESERVATION ALLIANCE.
>> I SPEAK FOR MYSELF TODAY BUT
I ENDORSE THE RECOMMENDATIONS
THAT THE ALLIANCE HAS SUBMITTED
TO YOU.
I'M HERE TO ENCOURAGE YOU TO
ADOPT AND EXTEND LANGUAGE
ADDRESSING HISTORIC
PRESERVATION PRESENTED IN YOUR
PACKETS FOR DISCUSSION PLEASE
ADD TO THE PLAN THE STATEMENT
THAT HISTORIC DISTRICTS SERVE
TO RECOGNIZE AND CONSERVE
STRUCTURES WITHIN DISTINCT
AREAS THAT PROVIDE SIGNIFICANT
HISTORICAL MEANING AND HERITAGE
REFLECTING THE CITY'S ORIGINS
AND EARLY DEVELOPMENT ALSO
INCLUDE ANY MODIFICATIONS TO
EXISTING DISTRICTS WOULD
REQUIRE FOLLOWING SIMILARLY
EXTENSIVE PUBLIC INPUT AND
DELIBERATION PROCEDURES AS
THOSE REQUIRED TO CREATE
HISTORIC DISTRICTS.
THESE STATEMENTS WOULD BE
WELCOME POSITIVE CHANGES,
ADDITIONAL LANGUAGE RECOMMENDED
FOR INCLUSION RECOGNIZES THAT
HISTORIC DISTRICTS ARE ALREADY
AMONG THE DENSEST AND MOST
WALKABLE IN THE CITY WITH
MULTIPLE BUILDING TYPES.
IT CONTINUES HISTORIC DISTRICT
BOUNDARIES AND REQUIREMENTS
WITHIN THEM WILL CONTINUE TO
FOLLOW THE STANDARDS AND
GUIDELINES ESTABLISHED BY THE
HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION
THE D.C. THE CITY SHOULD
SUPPORT OPPORTUNITIES FOR
INCREASED MISSING MIDDLE
HOUSING DENSITY WITHIN HISTORIC
DISTRICTS WHEN AND WHERE
APPROPRIATE AND CONSISTENT WITH
D.C. STANDARDS AND GUIDELINES
FOR MODIFICATIONS TO EXISTING
STRUCTURES AND THE DEVELOPMENT
OF NEW STRUCTURES WITHIN
HISTORIC DISTRICTS.
>> THE DC GUIDELINES ARE ENCAMP
HATABLE WITH THE GREATER MACING
AND HEIGHT PERMITTED IN
TRANSITION AND HUB LAND USE
CATEGORIES UNDERLYING ALL OR
PART OF RESIDENTIAL HISTORIC
DISTRICTS.
I AND MANY OTHER RESIDENTS
OF HISTORIC DISTRICTS FAIL TO
UNDERSTAND WHY THE PLAN CREATES
UNDERLYING LAND USE CATEGORIES
THAT CANNOT BE IMPLEMENTED.
DOING SO HAS
CREATED SIGNIFICANT
CONSTERNATION, CONFUSION AND
MISTRUST TO TO WHAT END OUR
PEER CITIES DON'T DO THIS.
THEY DON'T WANT INHERENT
CONFLICT BUILT INTO THEIR PLANS
AND THEY CHOOSE TO CLEARLY
PRIORITIZE PRESERVATION BECAUSE
THEY APPRECIATE ITS BENEFITS.
>> I STRONGLY URGE THAT THE ANN
ARBOR PLAN SHOULD ALIGN ANY NEW
UNDERLYING LAND USE CATEGORY
WITH THE BUILT ENVIRONMENT IN
HISTORIC DISTRICTS.
ALL HISTORIC DISTRICTS
CURRENTLY ZONED RESIDENTIAL
SHOULD REMAIN RESIDENTIAL
GENERALLY
THREE STORIES OR LESS
UNDER THE PLAN THIS RECOGNIZES
THE CHAPTER 103 OF THE CITY
CODE GOVERNS HISTORIC DISTRICTS
ALL PRECEDING LAND USE PLANS
HAVE RECOGNIZED THE NECESSITY
AND ENDURING VALUE OF HISTORIC
DISTRICTS FIVE MORE WORDS AS
CORE COMPONENTS OF URBAN LIFE.
>> THANK YOU FOR YOUR
CONSIDERATION.
THANK YOU
.
HELLO MY NAME IS PATRICIA
HACKNEY.
I LIVE AT THE CROSSINGS IN ANN
ARBOR.
>> THE BOOK ABUNDANCE BY KLEIN
AND THOMPSON IS ON THE CITY'S
LIST OF RECOMMENDED RESOURCES
FOR JUSTIFICATION.
ELON MUSK IS EXTOLLED AS A
WALKING EXAMPLE OF PRIVATE
BUSINESS AND GOVERNMENT WORKING
TOGETHER.
NO MENTION OF DOGE WOW
ABUNDANCE HAS A DISTINCTIVE GOP
ESSENCE EMPHASIZING REGULATIONS
,GOVERNMENT BUREAUCRACY AND
RED TAPE AS SOURCES FOR OUR
HOUSING CRISIS.
AND WHILE THIS HAS SOME TRUTH
TO OUR HOUSING CONUNDRUM, IT
CONSTITUTES ONLY 20 PERCENT AT
BEST OF THE EQUATION.
EGREGIOUSLY ABSENT IS CORPORATE
CONNECTIONS THAT ARE ESSENTIAL
THAT ARE CENTRAL TO ALL PLANS
IMPLEMENTATION AND DECISIONS
DECISIONS BASED ON PROFIT.
THE EXAMPLE IN ABUNDANCE IS
CALIFORNIA'S FAILURE TO
MANIFEST A MASS TRANSIT SYSTEM
IN 2030 TO 2033.
CALIFORNIA TARGETS THE
COMPLETION OF ITS LONG SOUGHT
AFTER MASS TRANSIT SYSTEM A
FULL CENTURY AFTER BEGINNING
THIS INITIATIVE DUE TO
CORPORATE MALFEASANCE.
>> ANY COMPANY WITH PROFITS AT
RISK SAYS A SUCCESSFUL.
HE MADE SURE THE MASS TRANSIT
SYSTEM DIDN'T HAPPEN FOR 100
YEARS.
CORPORATE INVOLVEMENT IS
PIVOTAL TO PUBLIC PROJECTS,
HOUSING INCLUDED.
BUT WITHOUT TRANSPARENCY,
PUBLIC TRANSPARENCY.
SAN FRANCISCO WAS THE EXCEPTION
AND IS 60 YEARS AHEAD OF THEIR
PEERS MUNICIPALITIES BECAUSE
THEY DIDN'T BOW TO CORPORATE
PRESSURES TPK FORECAST
INCREASING AN POPULATION BY UP
TO OVER 90000 YET INSISTS
NEIGHBORHOODS WILL NOT BE
AFFECTED, WHICH IS INCONGRUOUS
WITH EXISTING GEOGRAPHY.
THERE'S SIMPLY ISN'T ENOUGH
LAND TO HOUSE THAT NUMBER, LET
ALONE HALF OR A THIRD OF 90000
WITHOUT INFRINGING ON EXISTING
NEIGHBORHOODS SIGNIFICANTLY,
WHERE WILL THEY LIVE EXACTLY?
JUST DON'T SELL DOESN'T SELL
UNLESS YOU ARE NAIVE ENOUGH TO
BELIEVE VULNERABLE COMMUNITIES
WILL NOT BE EXPLOITED FOR SURE
THEY WILL NOT BE HOUSED IN
TOOMY HILLS BUT IN MIDDLE AND
LOWER CLASS NEIGHBORHOODS WHERE
PROFITABILITY IS AT A PREMIUM
IN TANDEM WITH PROFITABILITY
WILL BE EXPONENTIAL INCREASES
IN PROPERTY TAXES AS
EXEMPLIFIED IN THE NOW INFAMOUS
NINEL FOR LINCOLN AT A 500
PERCENT INCREASE.
YAMBA HAS NOTHING TO DO WITH
AFFORDABLE HOUSING ONLY MASSIVE
TAX INCREASES TO FUND THE
CITY'S MANY NYC MODEL AT THE
EXPENSE OF THE MIDDLE CLASS
SIMULTANEOUSLY THE CITY HAS
PLANTED THE SEEDS OF FIDUCIARY
INSTABILITY AT ARROWOOD.
THE NEW HOUSING CLAIM IS
AFFORDABLE QUESTIONS THE
DEFINITION OF AFFORDABLE AND
CASES OK THE PUBLIC DESERVES
BETTER.
THANK YOU
.
>> GOOD EVENING TOM STALBERG
ONE TWO ZERO TWO TREVER IN THE
HEART OF LOWERTOWN I'VE BEEN
LOOKING FORWARD FOUR YEARS TO
THE REVISION OF OUR
COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN.
WHAT I'D LIKE TO STILL SEE
WOULD BE AN EFFECTIVE PLAN.
THE CURRENT PLAN IS NOT THAT IT
WILL NOT BE EFFECTIVE IN
ACHIEVING ITS MAIN GOALS.
>> I'VE DISCUSSED THAT IN THE
PAST.
IT DOES NOT PROVIDE FOR
AFFORDABILITY, SUSTAINABILITY,
EQUITY AND I'LL PASS ON
DYNAMISM WHETHER IT DOES OR
DOESN'T.
>> I'D LIKE TO TALK ABOUT SOME
VERY SPECIFIC ITEMS.
>> ONE WHY IS NICE RESTAURANT
HOW WHY IS BEARCLAW COFFEE ?
>> WHY ARE MY NEIGHBORS HERE IN
A DISTRICT SORRY A CATEGORY
CALLED RESIDENTIAL OR TRANSIENT
DOES ANYBODY KNOW WHAT THAT
MEANS?
CAN YOU HAVE THAT IN A PLAN.
JUST SAY WE PUNTED WE DON'T
KNOW WHAT'S GOING TO BE SO
WE'LL PUT SOME MARKINGS ON THE
FUTURE LAND USE MAP.
NO PUT IT IN THE PLAN NOW
THINGS IT SHOULD BE IN THE PLAN
NOW WOULD BE MORE NO SIZE
MACING SETBACKS.
YOU HAVE TO HAVE EVERY DETAIL
BUT YOU CAN'T LEAVE ALMOST
EVERY DETAIL OUT AND HAVE AN
EFFECTIVE PLAN.
>> A COUPLE OF NUMBERS ARE LISA
DISH, MY COUNCIL MEMBER SENT
OUT A FLIER TRIFOLD WITH HER
AND MY OTHER WORD REPRESENT THE
HARRISON AND THE MAYOR AND IN
THAT FLIER IT SAYS SOMETHING
ABOUT THAT THIS DRAFT WILL
ALLOW FOR HOMES OF UP TO THREE
STORIES IN THE RESIDENTIAL
CATEGORY A FIVE FOOT INCREASE
OVER CURRENTLY ALLOWABLE
HEIGHTS.
I HOPE YOU DISCUSS THAT TONIGHT
BECAUSE THAT'S NOWHERE IN THE
PLAN THAT THERE'S SOME KIND
OF FIVE FOOT INCREASE RIGHT NOW
OUR RESIDENTIAL ZONES.
>> SO ALLOW FOR UP TO THIRTY
FEET AND THAT'S YES, MEASURED
AT THE MIDPOINT OF THE ROOF.
THERE'S NOWHERE IN THERE THAT
TALKS ABOUT THAT.
THERE'S SOME LIMIT TO ONLY FIVE
MORE FEET ON THAT THREE STOREY
SO YOU CAN HAVE A THREE STOREY
BUILDING NOW YOU CAN HAVE A
THREE STAR BUILDING LATER.
BUT WHAT ARE THE HEIGHTS WE
DON'T KNOW IS THE REAL ANSWER
RIGHT NOW THERE IS A DRAWING
AGENDA ITEM THE IT SHOWS A
COMPARISON OF SINGLE FAMILY
HOMES AND DUPLEXES LIKE COMPLEX
AS YOU ALL KNOW FROM PREVIOUS
DISCUSSIONS I OWN SOME TRIPLEX
,SOME DUPLEXES.
I OWN A TRIPLEX.
AND BY THE WAY, MY TRIPLEX IS
IN THE OVERSIZE DISTRICT.
>> I'M A MEMBER OF THE ANN
ARBOR PRESERVATION ALLIANCE AND
SUPPORT WHAT'S BEEN SAID SO FAR
THAT TRANSITION WOULD MAYBE
GIVE ME SHORT TERM RENTALS NOT
OWNER OCCUPIED SHORT TERM
RENTALS.
>> MY TRIPLEX LOCATION THAT'S
VERY LUCRATIVE FOR ME.
I DON'T WANT PLEATS.
>> THE PLAN SAYS YOU'RE GOING
TO DISCUSS THAT AT SOME POINT
LATER IN THE WRITING THE ZONING
NO SHORT TERM RENTALS SHOULD BE
IN THE PLAN RIGHT NOW IN TERMS
OF AND I'M JUMPING ALL OVER THE
PLACE.
THE BOTTOM LINE IS WE NEED MORE
DETAILS.
PEOPLE HAVE NO CLUE WHAT THE
PLAN IS EVEN IF THEY READ IT
THOROUGHLY BECAUSE THERE'S SO
MUCH VAGUENESS, SO MUCH UNKNOWN
AND SO MUCH THAT BELONGS IN A
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AS IT DOES
IN OTHER CITIES PLANTS BUT NOT
OURS.
THIS IS NOT AN EFFECTIVE PLAN.
>> YOU HAVE TIME TO GET THERE.
THANK YOU
.
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS GREG MONROE.
I LIVE AT ALL 61 BENDING ROAD
SO I'M JUST HERE I JUST WANTED
TO COMMENT ON A COUPLE OF THE
PUBLIC COMMENTS THAT I READ.
I APPRECIATE THAT THE CITY
POSTED THOSE AND MADE THOSE
TRANSPARENT SO THANK YOU FOR
THAT.
>> I WANT TO VOICE MY SUPPORT
FOR MEANINGFUL PROHIBITION OR
REGULATION OF SHORT TERM
RENTALS.
>> I THINK IT SHOULD BE NOTHING
BY WRITE IN TRANSITION OR
RESIDENTIAL.
>> I JUST THINK IT'S REALLY
HARD TO JUSTIFY ALLOWING THAT
IN HAVING THAT COMPORT WITH THE
VALUES THAT THIS PLAN YOU
STATES THAT IT WILL BRING ABOUT
.
>> AND I ALSO THINK ENFORCEMENT
IS PRETTY STRAIGHTFORWARD,
RIGHT?
WE CAN GOOGLE THINGS.
>> HOTELS ARE PRETTY OBVIOUS
LIKE THIS SHOULD BE SOMETHING
THAT WE CAN KIND OF KEEP WE CAN
MONITOR CHECK IN ON AND MONITOR
OVER TIME.
>> DID THE THING A RESIDENT
ASKED TO SHARE THE GENIUS MAP
OF THE ZONING DISTRICTS WITH
RESIDENTS PUBLICLY AND I THINK
THAT IS A EXCELLENT IDEA AND I
THINK THAT SHOULD OCCUR.
>> I'M NOT SURE WHY IT HAS NOT
ALREADY.
I ALSO SUPPORT THE COMMENT THAT
THE FOLLOWING LANGUAGE ROUND
HIGH RISE MIXED USE BUILDINGS
WHEN ADJACENT TO HUB BE REMOVED
FROM THE TRANSITION ZONE.
YOU KNOW, JUST HONESTLY EVERY
TIME I HAVE HEARD THIS
DISCUSSION ABOUT ADJACENT AND
TAPERING, ET CETERA, I AM
ALWAYS CONFUSED ABOUT WHAT
ADJACENT IS DEFINED AS RIGHT
AND LESS BOUNDARY KEEP COULD BE
POSSIBLE THERE.
>> AND THEN I ALSO WANT TO
RESPOND TO RESIDENT CONCERNS.
>> THIS IS MOSTLY SOMETHING I
SPOKE ABOUT IN THE PAST AND
PREVIOUS MEETINGS THAT YOU KNOW
THE TRANSITION ZONE DESIGNATION
IN WHAT ARE CURRENTLY TODAY
RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOODS IN
PRACTICE AND I DON'T THINK THIS
IS A LACK OF UNDERSTANDING ON
THE RESIDENTS PART.
I THINK RESIDENTS UNDERSTAND
VERY WELL THAT THEIR HOMES WILL
BE CLOSER TO INCREASED HEIGHT
LIMITS THAN RESIDENTIAL THAN
WHAT IS ALLOWED TODAY THAT
THEIR NEIGHBORHOODS WILL FACE
GREATER FLEXIBILITY OF USES
RIGHT INCLUDING COMMERCIAL AND
INDUSTRIAL AND FRANKLY THE WAY
DEVELOPMENT HEARINGS HAVE
PROCEEDED WHERE RESIDENTS SORT
VOICED THEIR CONCERNS AND THEN
ARE TOLD THAT, YOU KNOW, THEIR
QUALITY OF LIFE WILL BE
DIMINISHED WHEN SOMETHING IS
APPROVED AND YET WE'RE GOING TO
DO THAT ANYWAYS FOR THE GREATER
GOOD.
>> I THINK IT'S DIMINISHED A
LOT OF TRUST THAT OUR RESIDENTS
AND THAT'S WHY THAT LANGUAGE IS
NOT HELPFUL FOR THEM EITHER.
AND THEN FINALLY I THINK
RESIDENTS UNDERSTAND THAT THEIR
CURRENT RESIDENT RESIDENTIAL
NEIGHBORHOOD IS FAR MORE LIKELY
TO EXPERIENCE A LOT ASSEMBLY
AND MASSIVE DEVELOPMENT IN
TRANSITION ZONES.
RIGHT.
AND SO IF IF TAPERING LIMIT'S
THREE STORIES IN THESE AREAS,
WHAT PRACTICAL DIFFERENCE
EXISTS BETWEEN TRANSITION AND
RESIDENTIAL?
I ASK YOU SO THE OTHER THING I
WANT TO SAY THERE IS THE
JUSTIFICATION JUSTIFICATION
SEEMS LIKE THAT BECAUSE OUR
THREE OR FOUR TODAY THAT'S WHY
THESE AREAS ARE IN TRANSITION.
BUT THAT ALSO SEEMS SORT
OF FLAWED TO USE THIS EXISTING
ZONING WHICH THIS PLAN
PRESUPPOSES IS BACKWARDS AND
WRONG AS THE SOURCE OF TRUTH TO
MAKE THESE DECISIONS ESPECIALLY
WHEN AGAIN ALL RESIDENTIAL
DISTRICTS TODAY ARE BEING ZONED
TRIPLE THE NUMBER OF UNITS.
SO YOU KNOW THIS ARGUMENT THAT
WE CAN'T GO BACKWARDS, I'M NOT
SURE THAT THAT STANDS UP
EITHER.
SO WITH MY REMAINING TIME I'D
ALSO LIKE TO VOICE SUPPORT FOR
ASSEMBLY RESTRICTIONS
OF RESIDENTIAL
AND SOMEONE ALSO
SUPPORTED FOR CPI'S RIGHT.
>> SO WHAT GETS MEASURED AT
DONE?
I REALLY THINK WE NEED REAL KEY
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS IN THE
PLAN.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
>> IS THERE OK?
NO I DIDN'T SEE YOU THERE MR.
WESTFALL.
GOOD EVENING COMMISSION KIRK
WESTFALL THIRTY FIVE OR FIVE
CHARTER PLACE.
I WANT TO ECHO THE THE
CONFUSION I'VE HEARD ABOUT THE
ADDITIONAL FIVE FEET IN
RESIDENTIAL.
MY UNDERSTANDING WAS THAT THAT
HAD BEEN DISCUSSED AND
RETRACTED OR CORRECTED AND IT
JUST MAYBE IT WOULD BE HELPFUL
TO CORRECT THAT AGAIN FOR THE
RECORD THAT THAT HAS NOT BEEN
DETERMINED.
SO I HAVE A COUPLE OF JUST
CATEGORICAL COMMENTS ABOUT THAT
PLAN SO FAR JUST KIND OF DRY
STUFF.
THERE'S TEXT ISSUES AND ALSO
THE MAP ISSUES IN TERMS OF TEXT
I THINK THE THE LARGEST THING
THAT WAS ALLUDED TO JUST A FEW
MINUTES AGO ON PAGE 113 THAT
THERE'S AN IMPLICATION THAT
THERE CAN ONLY BE HIGH RISES IN
TRANSITION IF IT'S ADJACENT TO
HUB AND I THINK THAT MAY NOT BE
WHAT YOU WANT TO THAT MAY BE
WHAT YOU DECIDE TO DO
EVENTUALLY.
BUT I THINK IF SOMETHING IS FAR
ENOUGH AWAY FROM RESIDENTIAL IN
A TRANSITION ZONE OR NEXT TO
OPEN SPACE OR HOWEVER FAR THE
WAY YOU DEEM APPROPRIATE TO
TAPER THAT HIGH RISES COULD BE
AN TRANSITION EVEN IF THEY
AREN'T NEXT TO HUB.
SO I WOULD RECOMMEND STRIKING
IF ADJACENT TO HUB AND OF SOME
OTHER NITPICKY THINGS THAT I
SENT IN AN EMAIL I THINK A
SEARCH TO REPLACE ON CONTEXT
WOULD BE GOOD JUST BECAUSE
PEOPLE TEND TO READ WHAT THEY
WANT INTO CONTEXT AND THIS WILL
ALL BE QUANTITATIVELY HANDLED
WHEN YOU DO THE ZONING WITH
REGARD TO A MAP I THINK I WOULD
ENCOURAGE I DON'T KNOW MAYBE A
WORKING SESSION OR SOMETHING AT
SOME POINT ABOUT THE MAP EVERY
TIME I ZOOM IN TO IT I SEEM TO
JUST FIND SOME ISSUES.
>> ONE LARGER ISSUE I THINK IS
THERE IS A LEGEND OR
CATEGORIZATION ISSUE WHERE WE
HAVE CITY PARKS DESIGNATED AND
WE HAVE CITY COUNTY YOU KNOW,
LAND WE HAVE U OF M LAND AND
SCHOOLS AND THEN WE HAVE
ANOTHER QUETZAL THAT SAYS I
THINK PARKS OPEN SPACE AND
RECREATIONAL FACILITIES AND I
GUESS UNLESS YOU'RE
ANTICIPATING CREATING ZONING
DISTRICT THAT HAS TO DO WITH
RECREATIONAL FACILITIES OR OPEN
SPACE THAT'S NOT CITY PARKS FOR
EXAMPLE, THE RACKET YOU KNOW,
OFF OF YOUR PARKWAY IS ON THERE
IS RECREATIONAL FACILITY AND I
THINK THAT'S KIND OF LIKE AN
URBAN GOLFING OUTING.
IT SHOULD NOT BE JUST
CONSIDERED A RECREATIONAL
FACILITY.
I THINK YOU SHOULD GIVE
PRESIDENTIAL TRANSITION AND
THERE'S ALSO SOME BOUNDARY
ISSUES LIKE IF YOU LOOK IF YOU
ZOOM IN AROUND MIRFIN AND
PLYMOUTH AND UPPER BROADWAY,
THERE'S SOME USE THERE'S SOME
OWNERSHIP CATEGORIES THERE THAT
I FIND CONFUSING.
BUT ANYWAY I THINK THAT'S WORTH
ITS OWN DEDICATED SECTION
BECAUSE THAT GETS VERY SPECIFIC
AND MAYBE GREAT FOR A GENERAL
MEETING.
>> THANKS.
>> THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE IN THE
CHAMBERS.
>> THANK YOU
.
EVENING THIS IS ALEX LOWE.
I'D LIKE TO TALK TO YOU ABOUT
HISTORIC DISTRICTS UM FUND THE
SELLING POINTS OF HISTORIC
DISTRICTS THAT OTHER COMMENTERS
HAVE GIVEN TO BE VERY
FASCINATING BECAUSE THE VERY
BENEFITS THAT THEY'RE OFFERING
AND CLAIMING TO BE UNIQUE TO
HISTORIC DISTRICTS ARE IN FACT
WHAT THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
AIMS TO MAKE LEGAL THROUGHOUT
THE CITY RATHER THAN JUST IN
SMALL EXCLUSIVE AREAS THAT
PREDATE OUR EXCLUSIONARY AND
RACIST ZONING LAWS.
ON A DIFFERENT TOPIC THOUGH I
APPRECIATED A PREVIOUS COMMENT
MENTIONING MY PARTICULAR
NEIGHBORHOOD AS HE WANTED TO
KNOW WHY IT'S DESIGNATED AS
RESIDENTIAL OR TRANSITION AND I
TOO WOULD LOVE TO KNOW THE
ANSWER TO THAT.
IT DOESN'T MAKE SENSE TO ME
BECAUSE THE THE LIMITATIONS
THAT THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
HAVE ARE IMPLYING FOR
RESIDENTIAL WOULD BE TANTAMOUNT
TO DOWN ZONING IN MY
NEIGHBORHOOD AND I THOUGHT THAT
WAS KIND OF THE OPPOSITE
OF WHERE WE WERE GOING WITH THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
SO IT SEEMS QUITE QUESTIONABLE
TO ME THAT IT WOULD WOULD BE
RESIDENTIAL RATHER THAN
TRANSITION OR HUB.
UM, I NEED LOCAL LANDLORDS WHO
OWN MORE HOMES THAN I COULD
EVER AFFORD ASKING YOU NOT TO
TAKE ACTION ON OUR LOCAL
HOUSING CRISIS.
IT CERTAINLY DOES MAKE SENSE
THAT THOSE LANDLORDS WOULDN'T
WANT MORE COMPETITION AFTER ALL
IT WOULD GO AGAINST THEIR
FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
>> BUT LANDLORDS MAKE UP A
SMALL MINORITY OF OF THE CITY
WHO WE COULD COULD REFER TO AS
THE LANDED GENTRY AND IT WOULD
MAKE MUCH MORE SENSE TO FOCUS
ON THE MAJORITY OF THE CITY,
THOSE WHO ARE STRUGGLING TO
FIND EVEN ONE HOME RATHER THAN
HAVING SO MANY EXTRA THAT THEY
CAN'T HOLD THEM OFF.
>> THANK THANK YOU.
>> IS THERE ANYONE ELSE AND
CHAMBERS WHO WOULD LIKE TO
ADDRESS ARE YOU GETTING UP MR.
GARBER
?
>> THANK YOU, CHAIRMAN, FOR THE
INVITATION.
YOU'RE WELCOME.
I APOLOGIZE FOR THE RANT ON
SUSTAINABILITY.
I'M ABOUT TO DELIVER.
IT'S ONE OF THE PLANS FOR CORE
VALUES BUT THE PLAN FALLS WAY
SHORT ON THE CLIMATE CRISIS
DEMAND SOLUTIONS THAT CHALLENGE
OUR ENTRENCHED WAYS OF HOUSING
OURSELVES AND MOVING OURSELVES
IN OUR CONSUMERISM.
BUT THE CURRENT PLAN BASICALLY
ACCEPTS THE STATUS QUO WITH
HALF MEASURES THAT WILL MAKE
LITTLE IMPACT ON GREENHOUSE GAS
EMISSIONS.
THIS LIMITED APPROACH IS
COMPOUNDED BY THE CONSTANT
MENTION OF RESILIENCE WHICH IS
INVOKED AN ASTOUNDING FORTY SIX
TIMES IN THE PLAN.
BY CONTRAST, THE TERM FOSSIL
FUEL IS MENTIONED EXACTLY ONCE
WE NEED LESS FALSE OPTIMISM AND
MORE URGENCY FOR DRASTICALLY
LOWERING OUR INDIVIDUAL AND
COLLECTIVE CARBON EMISSIONS
CARBON FOOTPRINT WE SHOULD NOT
SIMPLY ACCEPT THE SOCIAL AND
ECONOMIC NORMS THAT HAVE GOTTEN
US HERE.
>> OUR PLANET IS DYING SO I'M
WORKING ON MY SPECIFIC
SUGGESTIONS WHICH I HOPE TO
SEND TO YOU SOON.
>> FOR NOW I'LL JUST SAY THAT
THE H0 PLAN IS NOT WORKING BY
NEIGHBORHOOD DECARBONIZATION IS
UNDERWAY.
GREAT PROJECT BUT BRYANT IS 206
HOMES ROUGHLY 280000 SQUARE
FEET.
CONSIDER THE LEGACY THE 19
STOREY BUILDING IN EAST
WASHINGTON HAD OPENED TO
STUDENTS THIS YEAR TWO HUNDRED
FIFTY FIVE THOUSAND SQUARE FEET
ALL HEATED WITH FOSSIL GAS.
>> THAT ONE PROJECT WILL ALMOST
COMPLETELY NEGATE THE EMISSIONS
SAVINGS FROM BRYANT AND JUST
ONE I CAN THERE'S A WHOLE BUNCH
OF OTHERS BROADWAY PARK WEST
WEST TWO HUNDRED SIXTY THOUSAND
SQUARE FEET SERTORI IS TWO
HUNDRED AND FIFTY THOUSAND THE
VILLAGE WHICH YOU'LL SEE
PROBABLY IN A COUPLE OF MONTHS
COMING BACK TO YOU 400000
SQUARE FEET WITH GAS AS FAR AS
WE KNOW FOR HOTELS ON THEIR WAY
TO APPROVED YOU UNDER REVIEW
WITH GAS EVEN THE MARRIOTT
GOING UP ACROSS THE STREET
THERE IS HEATED WITH GAS AND
IT'S COMMON SPACES.
THE CITY HAS APPROVED OVER TWO
POINT FIVE MILLION SQUARE FEET
OF GAS TO NEW CONSTRUCTION
SINCE ADOPTING A TWO ZERO
MOESHA TO COME ONLINE REVIEW
REDUCE COMMUTER EMISSIONS WILL
HELP BUT THEY OFFSET ONLY A
FRACTION AND WE DON'T EVEN
EMBEDDED IN EMISSIONS FROM ALL
THAT STEEL AND CONCRETE WHICH
CAN ADD UP TO FIFTY CAN AMOUNTS
TO UP TO 50 PERCENT OF A
BUILDING'S LIFETIME EMISSIONS.
>> NONE OF THIS REFLECTS ON
STAFF'S GOOD WORK.
>> THEY THEY'VE BEEN WORKING
HARD.
IT'S A COLLECTIVE FAILURE.
I BLAME MYSELF TOO.
I THINK WE ALL HAVE TO LOOK
INWARD BUT THE COMP PLAN IS A
PLAN FOR 2050 AND IT NEEDS TO
GO MUCH FURTHER TO
SUSTAINABILITY THAN IT DOES.
>> SO AGAIN WE'LL BE HEARING
DETAILS FROM ME OR READING THEM
HOPEFULLY IN A COUPLE OF WEEKS
AT THE LATEST.
THANKS FOR CONSIDERING THIS.
IT'S GREAT TO BE WITH YOU AGAIN
TONIGHT AND THANKS FOR ALL YOUR
WORK ON THE COMPANY.
>> THANK YOU, MR. IS THERE
ANYONE IN CHAMBERS WHO'D LIKE
TO ADDRESS THE COMMISSION
SEEING NONE.
MR. LEONARD, DO WE HAVE ONLINE
PARTICIPANTS?
>> NO HANDS RAISED.
>> GREAT SEEING NONE.
I WILL CLOSE THE PUBLIC COMMENT
AND MOVE TO AGENDA ITEM NUMBER
SEVEN COMMUNICATION FROM
COMMISSIONERS.
>> IS THERE ANY
ALL RIGHT.
I JUST HAVE A COUPLE OF THINGS
THAT I WANTED TO CHECK ON.
MR. MONROE ASKED ABOUT THE
GEASS FOUR ZONES.
THOSE EXIST TODAY BECAUSE THE
ZONES ARE AVAILABLE IN THE
GIST.
>> IS THAT CORRECT?
I PRESUME HE ACTUALLY WAS
REFERENCING THE FUTURE LAND USE
MAP WHICH WE HAVE NOT MADE A
GAS LAYER UNTIL THAT IS ADOPTED
BECAUSE WE HAVEN'T ADOPTED IT.
>> SO THAT WOULD BE THE ANSWER
TO THAT.
BUT I THINK ONCE THAT GETS
ADOPTED IT WILL BE PRESENT.
>> HOLD ON.
JUST KEEP GOING THROUGH THE ON
THE HISTORIC DISTRICTS MR. JUST
REMIND ME AGAIN FOR MY
EDIFICATION THOSE ARE NOT
UNDER
THE DIRECT PURVIEW OF THE
COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN.
HISTORIC DISTRICTS ARE
ESTABLISHED BY A SEPARATE
LEGISLATION OR NOT BY THE
PLANNING ACT SOME COMPREHENSIVE
PLANS TO ADDRESS THEM BUT
THEY'RE NOT ESTABLISHED BY THIS
BODY.
THANK YOU, MR. LEONARD.
>> UM OH I THINK IT WAS MR.
WESTFALL WHO ASKED ABOUT THE
RECREATION ZONING FOR THE
GOLFING CLUB AND THE RACKET
CLUB ON HURON PARKWAY.
>> DO YOU HAVE ANY INFORMATION
TO SHARE WITH US ABOUT HOW THEY
GOT DESIGNATED AS RECREATION
AND THOUGH THEY ARE PRIVATE AS
OPPOSED TO RESIDENTIAL OR
TRANSITION?
>> UM, I COULD LOOK INTO THAT.
THERE'S BEEN A LOT OF DIALOG
ABOUT BOTH CURRENT USES VERSUS
OUR ASPIRATIONAL USES.
THERE'S BEEN DIALOG ABOUT
OWNERSHIP CONVERSATIONS ABOUT
WHICH PARKS TO INCLUDE FOR
EXAMPLE, SOME SCHOOL
PLAYGROUNDS ARE NOT CITY PARKS
BUT THEY FUNCTION VERY MUCH AS
PARKS.
SO I DON'T KNOW THE ENTIRE
HISTORY OF THOSE IF THAT'S
SOMETHING THAT THE COMMISSION
WANTS TO EXPLORE THAT WAS
OF COURSE SOMETHING YOU
CONSIDER AS PART OF YOUR
FINALIZATION OF THE PLAN.
>> OK, AND THEN THERE WAS A
COMMENT ABOUT A PROPERTY THAT
SOLD RECENTLY AND THAT'S TAXES
WENT UP FIVE HUNDRED PERCENT.
THAT IS JUST A FUNCTION OF THE
PROPERTY CHANGING OWNERS AND
THEN BEING SUBJECT TO STATE LAW
AS IT RELATES TO TAXABLE
PROPERTIES.
>> CORRECT?
I AM PLEASE PLEASE DO NOT
INTERRUPT OUR DELIBERATION
PLEASE.
SO MR. LUNNER, SO OFTEN
PROPERTIES WHEN THEY ARE UNDER
CONSTANT OWNERSHIP FOR A LONG
TIME STATE LAW HAS RESTRICTIONS
OF THE TAXES PAID ON THAT
PROPERTY DO NOT NECESSARILY
RISE WITH THE SAME RATE THAT
THE VALUE OF THE PROPERTY RISES
AND WHEN THAT PROPERTY IS SOLD
STATE LAW DOES ALLOW THAT THAT
PROPERTY TO BE REASSESSED
ASSESSED AND OFTENTIMES YOU
HEAR IT AS AND IT'S CALLED
UNCAPPED OR FOR TWO AND OFTEN
THAT RESULTS IN A LARGE JUMP IN
TAXES PARTICULARLY FOR A
PROPERTY THAT MIGHT HAVE BEEN
UNDER A SINGULAR OWNERSHIP FOR
A LONG PERIOD OF TIME.
>> THANK YOU, MR. LEONARD.
ARE THERE ANY OTHER
COMMISSIONER COMMENTS
COMMISSIONER DISH I'M GLAD YOU
ASKED THAT QUESTION BECAUSE I
WANTED TO FOLLOW UP WHAT I
THOUGHT I UNDERSTOOD FROM THE
QUESTION THAT WAS ASKED WAS
WHETHER THAT JUMP IN A SINGLE
PROPERTY AFFECTS THE
SURROUNDING PROPERTIES.
THE SURROUNDING PROPERTIES ARE
STILL LIMITED BY THE SAME
RESTRICTIONS THAT KEEP THE
TAXABLE VALUE CONSTRAINED OVER
THE LIFETIME.
SO I AM NOT AN ASSESSOR SO I
CAN'T SPEAK TO HOW THAT MIGHT
LONG TERM AFFECT THE ASSESSMENT
OF A CATEGORY OR AN AREA OR A
NEIGHBORHOOD.
THERE ARE CONSIDERATIONS
OF THAT ACROSS THE CITY.
HOWEVER, EVEN WITH VALUATION
CHANGES THE SURROUNDING
PROPERTIES ARE STILL
CONSTRAINED IN GROWTH.
>> SO EVEN IF THE MARKET VALUE
WERE TO EXPONENTIALLY INCREASE
OVER A SHORT PERIOD OF TIME,
THE CONTINUED OWNERSHIP KEEPS
TAXABLE VALUE AT A MUCH LOWER
RATE.
>> RIGHT.
SO EVEN IF THE VALUE OF A HOME
THAT IS UNDER CONSTANT
OWNERSHIP INCREASES THE ABILITY
OF THAT VALUE INCREASE TO
AFFECT THE THE TAX BILL IS
LIMITED FOR THE RATE
OF INFLATION AND IT'S PROPERTY
VALUES INCREASE AT A RATE OF 10
PERCENT PER YEAR.
BUT THE RATE OF INFLATION IS
TWO PERCENT PER YEAR.
THE CITY CANNOT INCREASE THE
TAXABLE VALUE OF THAT PROPERTY
BY MORE THAN TWO PERCENT.
THAT'S A GROSS
OVERSIMPLIFICATION.
>> THAT'S ROUGHLY WHAT IT
MEANS.
AND ISN'T THERE ANOTHER PIECE
THAT YOU'RE YOU'RE NOT TAXED ON
THE FULL VALUE OF YOUR HOME
THAT YOU'RE LIVING IN?
THAT'S THE DISTINCTION OF THE
MARKET VALUE OF YOUR HOUSE AND
THE ASSESSED VALUE INCREASING
AT A FASTER RATE THAN THE
TAXABLE VALUE CAN INCREASE BY
STATE LAW.
OK, THANK YOU.
I ALSO WANTED TO NOTE THAT I
RECENTLY HAD A MEETING WITH
STAFF TO DISCUSS THE TRANSITION
CONVERSATIONS THAT WE'VE BEEN
HAVING.
I THINK MR. MONROE, YOU BROUGHT
THIS UP IN YOUR COMMENTS AROUND
THE BOUNDARIES AND WHAT DOES IT
MEAN IF SOMETHING IS ZONE
TRANSITION AND THEN I THINK
MAYBE MR. STALBERG OR EVEN MR.
CROCKETT MAY HAVE MENTIONED
THAT IN THEIR COMMENTS ABOUT
HOW IT AFFECTS THE RESIDENTIAL
.
AND SO I'VE ASKED STAFF TO WORK
WITH THE PLANNING COMMISSION TO
HELP US COMMUNICATE A LITTLE
BIT BETTER ABOUT HOW THOSE
IMAGINED DISTRICTS WILL IMPACT
EACH OTHER AND SO I'M WAITING
TO HEAR BACK ON THE RESULT
OF THAT CONVERSATION THE
EARLIEST THAT WE MAY SEE IT AT
THE TABLE MAY BE IN OUR REGULAR
MEETING OR WORK SESSION IN
DECEMBER.
>> SO WE ARE HEARING A LOT
OF CONCERN AROUND HOW
TRANSITION BUT OR IS ADJACENT
TO OR INTERACTS WITH
RESIDENTIAL AND WE ARE WORKING
TO TRY TO CLARIFY THAT AS BEST
WE CAN.
I THINK IT IS ALSO THE CASE
THAT WE HAVEN'T MADE THOSE
DETERMINATIONS.
I THINK MR. STOLLBERG, YOU ARE
CORRECT.
WE HAVEN'T PUT THOSE THINGS
INTO THE PLAN BECAUSE THAT'S
NOT THE STAGE THAT WE ARE IN IN
OUR DEVELOPMENT.
>> AND SO I HAVE ALSO ASKED
THAT STAFF PREPARE A MEMO THAT
HELPS BOTH THE COMMISSION AND
THE PUBLIC UNDERSTAND WHAT
STAGE WE ARE IN AND WHAT STAGES
ARE TO COME AND WHAT TOPICS WE
WILL ENTERTAIN AS WE MOVE
THROUGH THOSE STAGES.
>> SO WE APPRECIATE YOUR
COMMENTS.
I THINK WE'VE RECEIVED OVER 400
COMMENTS ON THE THIS CURRENT
REVISION.
WE GOT A VERY LARGE SPREADSHEET
WITH THEM THAT WE HAVE BEEN
REVIEWING AND SO WE WILL
CONTINUE TO TAKE THAT FEEDBACK.
WE WILL CONTINUE TO PROCESS IT
AND WE WILL CONTINUE TO MOVE
THE PROCESS FORWARD.
>> ARE THERE ANY OTHER
COMMISSIONERS WHO HAVE
COMMUNICATIONS AT THIS TIME?
JUST A CLARIFICATION.
I WAS SAVING MY COMMENTS AROUND
THE COMP AND FOR THE COMPLAN UK
AGENDA ITEM.
OK, I JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE I
WASN'T MISSING MY OPPORTUNITY.
>> NO, NO, IT'S JUST PROVIDE
SOME PEOPLE MAY NOT BE HERE
WHEN YOU MAKE THOSE COMMENTS
AND SO THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY
FOR US TO ADDRESS GOD RIGHT
AFTER PUBLIC COMMENT.
>> GOT IT.
THANKS.
YEAH.
ARE THERE ANY OTHER
COMMUNICATIONS FROM
COMMISSIONERS' SEEING NONE WILL
MOVE ON TO AGENDA ITEM NUMBER
EIGHT PUBLIC HEARING SCHEDULED
FOR THE NEXT MEETING, MR
LUNNER.
>> YES,E HAVE THREE PUBLIC
HEARINGS SCHEDULED FOR THE
DUST'S TUESDAY, DECEMBER 2ND.
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE MEETING
WHICH IS SCHEDULED TO BEGIN AT
SEVEN.
BACK TO YOUR NORMAL SEVEN P.M.
TIME.
FIRST THE DEAN FIVE FIFTY EIGHT
S FIFTH AVENUE.
THIS IS REZONING ONE ACRE FROM
OUR FORESEE MULTIPLE FAMILY
DWELLING AND M1 LIMITED
INDUSTRIAL TO D ONE DOWNTOWN
CORE BASE WITH THE MIDTOWN
CHARACTER OVERLAY AND A
SECONDARY STREET FRONTAGE
DESIGNATION.
THE PETITION IS TO REZONE NINE
PARCELS INCLUDING FIVE FIVE
FOUR FIVE FIVE EIGHT S FIFTH
AVENUE TO A ONE TO ONE ONE AND
TWO ONE FIVE EAST MADISON AND
FIVE FOUR THREE FIVE FOUR SEVEN
FIVE FIVE ONE FIVE FIVE THREE S
FOURTH AVENUE.
THIS SITE PLANNED TO DEVELOP A
FOURTEEN STOREY RESIDENTIAL
BUILDING WILL BE SUBMITTED
SEPARATELY.
>> THE SECOND IS NEAR NORTH
SEVEN HUNDRED NORTH MAIN STREET
REZONING ONE POINT TWO ACRES
FROM OUR FORESEE MULTIPLE
FAMILY DWELLING TO OUR FOUR E
MULTIPLE FAMILY DWELLING
ADDITIONS TO REZONING AT FIFTY
TWO THOUSAND SQUARE FOOT SITE
AT SEVEN HUNDRED NORTH MAIN
STREET AS I PLAN TO DEVELOP A
SIX STOREY RESIDENTIAL BUILDING
WILL BE SUBMITTED SEPARATELY
AND FINALLY AMENDMENT TO
CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE REGARDING
COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION
REQUIREMENTS A PROPOSAL TO
AMEND SECTION FIVE POINT TO
EIGHT POINT FOR COMMUNITY
PARTICIPATION REQUIREMENTS TO
REQUIRE POSTED SIGNS IN
ADDITION TO THE WRITTEN
INVITATIONS AND MAILED
ANNOUNCEMENTS FOR TYPE ONE AND
TYPE TWO COMMUNITY
PARTICIPATION WITH REGULATIONS
FOR THE CONTENT PLACEMENT AND
TIMING OF THE SIGNS.
>> THANK YOU MR. LEONARD.
THAT TAKES US TO AGENDA ITEM
NUMBER NINE AND VEHICULAR
PARKING ORDINANCE AMENDMENT IN
AN ORDINANCE TO AMEND MULTIPLE
SECTIONS OF FIVE POINT ONE NINE
PARKING REQUIREMENTS TO UPDATE
BICYCLE PARKING REQUIREMENTS
AND TO IMPROVE USABILITY,
DESIGN AND ACCESSIBILITY
OF BICYCLE PARKING FACILITIES
AND TO REFORMAT THE REQUIRED
PARKING TABLE STAFF
RECOMMENDATION IS APPROVAL WILL
START WITH A STAFF PRESENTATION
BY PLANNER MARLENE CORCORAN.
>> THANK YOU ALL.
I AM BACK TO TALK ABOUT BICYCLE
PARKING AND INCLUDED IN YOUR
PACKET.
I'LL JUST GIVE AN OVERVIEW
OF SOME OF THE PROPOSED CHANGES
TO BICYCLE PARKING.
ONE IS A SIMPLIFIED REQUIRED
BICYCLE PARKING TABLE THAT ALSO
INCLUDES BARRIER FREE PARKING
REQUIREMENTS ALSO INCLUDES
INCREASED REQUIREMENTS FOR
MULTIFAMILY DEVELOPMENTS AND
DECREASED CLASS A REQUIREMENTS
IN THE DOWNTOWN DISTRICTS.
IT INCLUDES LANGUAGE CLARIFYING
ACCEPTABLE LOCATIONS FOR ALL
CLASSES OF BICYCLE PARKING, A
REFORMATTED DESIGN OF BICYCLE
PARKING FACILITIES THE SECTION
IN THE UDC TO CLARIFY
REQUIREMENTS FOR EACH PARKING
CLASS AND IT INCLUDES OTHER
LANGUAGE THAT CLARIFIES ACCESS
REQUIREMENTS AND ENCOURAGES
WAYFINDING SIGNAGE AS PART
OF THIS THERE IS ALSO A
PROPOSAL TO REFORMAT THE
VEHICLE PARKING TABLE WHICH
WHEN WE TOOK OUT THE BICYCLE
PARKING REQUIREMENTS WHICH
WOULD CONDENSE A TABLE THERE
ARE NO MAJOR CHANGES TO THE
REQUIREMENTS.
>> IT'S MAINLY REFORMATTING.
THIS HAS BEEN TO THE OAC SO
THOSE MEMOS ARE ALSO INCLUDED
IN THE PACKET AND THEN I WANTED
TO JUST CALL OUT SOME OF THE
CHANGES FROM WHEN THIS LAST WAS
PRESENTED AT THE NOVEMBER 5TH
MEETING TWO WEEKS AGO.
>> SO THOSE ARE ALSO INCLUDED
IN TODAY'S STAFF MEMO.
BIGGER ONES ARE SOME AGAIN
GENERAL REORGANIZATION AND
LANGUAGE UPDATES OF FOR THE
DESIGN OF BICYCLE PARKING
FACILITIES SECTION ALSO
INCLUDING DIMENSIONAL AND
DESIGN REQUIREMENTS AS
SEPARATED STANDARDS FOR BICYCLE
PARKING SPACES WHICH HOPEFULLY
GETS CLOSER TO DEFINING
PREFERRED BRAC TYPES STUFF DOES
LEAVE THAT DETAILED
RECOMMENDATIONS FOR
RECOMMENDATIONS FOR BICYCLE
RACKS WOULD BE MORE APPROPRIATE
TO HAVE IN A GUIDE THAT IS
ACCESSED ONLINE AND IS NOT
DIRECTLY IN THE UDC SO THAT'S
SOMETHING YOU WOULD LIKE.
>> WE CAN ADD THAT TO OUR WORK
PLAN.
>> UPDATED LANGUAGE ALSO
INCLUDES CLARIFICATION AT RACKS
SHOULD BE CENTERED WITHIN THE
DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS OF THE
BICYCLE PARKING SPACES IS AFTER
REVIEWING THE EXISTING INVERTED
U RACKS THAT ARE AT THE
DOWNTOWN LIBRARY WHICH ARE TOO
CLOSE TO LANDSCAPING ELEMENTS
WHICH MAKE THEM DIFFICULT TO
USE.
SO CENTERING THEM WITHIN THE
DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS SHOULD
HELP WITH THAT SO THAT THAT
DOESN'T HAPPEN AGAIN.
>> ALSO WE HAVE REMOVED THE
ALTERNATIVES FROM THE
ALTERNATIVE SECTION THE
FOLLOWING PRIMARY USES FROM THE
EXCEPTIONS REQUIRED BY BIKE
PARKING, ADULT FOSTER CARE,
EMERGENCY SHELTER, FUNERAL
SERVICES, PARKS RECREATION AND
OPEN SPACE TRANSPORTATION
FACILITIES, AGRICULTURE AND
OUTDOOR STORAGE.
SO THOSE WERE CARRYOVERS FROM
THE EXISTING TABLE THAT DO NOT
REQUIRE BICYCLE PARKING AND
THEY WILL NOW REQUIRE THE
BICYCLE PARKING PER THEIR
GENERAL USE CATEGORIES IN THE
PROPOSED TABLE AND THEN SOME
OTHER ALTERNATIVE LANGUAGE HAS
BEEN UPDATED.
SO THERE WAS ALSO SOME
DISCUSSION STAFF WOULD LIKE TO
CLARIFY FROM THE PAST MEETING
THAT THE DECREASE IN DOWNTOWN
REQUIRED SPACES IS PARTICULARLY
FOR CLASS A REQUIREMENTS AND
SPECIFICALLY WE ARE LOOKING AT
THE HIGH RISE APARTMENT
BUILDINGS THAT WE'RE SEEING
THOSE MINAWI DID A REVIEW
OF THOSE EXISTING BICYCLE
FACILITIES.
THEY WERE RARELY USED OR NOT
FULL AND SO THAT'S WHY THE
DECREASE IN CLASS REQUIREMENTS
IS PROPOSED.
THE REQUIREMENTS FOR CLASS C
PARKING IN THE DOWNTOWN AREA
REMAIN THE SAME AND REVIEWING
CLASS REQUIREMENTS COULD BE
ADDED TO THE WORK PLAN AND
DISCUSSIONS WITH THE DOWNTOWN
DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY COULD
ALSO BE ADDED THERE JUST NOT
INCLUDED IN THE SCOPE OF THIS
PROJECT AND AFTER REVIEWING THE
LANGUAGE IN THE THREE DIFFERENT
CLASSES OF BICYCLE PARKING A, B
AND C STAFF ISN'T PROPOSING ANY
MAJOR CHANGES TO THE KIND WAY
THAT WE DEFINE THE INTENT
BECAUSE WE FEEL THAT
APPROPRIATELY OUTLINES EACH
CLASS AS IT RELATES TO THE
REQUIREMENTS AND I THINK THAT'S
ALL I HAVE FOR RIGHT NOW OUT
BUT HAPPY TO ANSWER ANY
QUESTIONS.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
WE WILL NOW MOVE TO A PUBLIC
HEARING BUT THIS IS A HEARING A
PUBLIC HEARING OR A PUBLIC
DISCUSSION?
>> IT'S A HEARING PUBLIC
HEARING RIGHT.
>> A PUBLIC HEARING ON THIS
MATTER.
SO THIS IS AN INDIVIDUAL FOR
INDIVIDUALS TO SPEAK UP TO
THREE MINUTES ON A PROPOSED
AMENDMENT TO FIVE POINT ONE
NINE PARKING REC REQUIREMENTS.
>> WE WILL FIRST HEAR FROM
THOSE OF YOU WHO ARE PRESENT
WITH US IN THE CHAMBERS AND
THEN WE WILL HEAR FROM REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK REMOTELY
PRESS STAR NINE IF ON PHONE OR
USE THE RAISED HAND FEATURE IF
USING ZOOM YOU CAN FOR PHONE
ACCESS YOU CAN CALL EIGHT SEVEN
SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TWO
FOUR SEVEN AND IN OUR MEETING
I.D. NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX
THREE FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX CITY
STAFF IDENTIFY CALLERS BY THE
LAST THREE DIGITS OF THEIR
PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME.
IF ON ZOOM YOU WILL HEAR AN
ANNOUNCEMENT WHEN IT'S YOUR
TURN TO SPEAK PLEASE ENSURE
YOU'RE IN A QUIET AREA AND
PLEASE MUTE ANY BACKGROUND
NOISE FOR ALL PARTICIPANTS.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT IN
CHAMBERS WHO WOULD LIKE TO
SPEAK ON THIS MATTER
SEEING
NONE MR. LIMMER LEONARD DO WE
HAVE ANY REMOTE PARTICIPANTS
WHO WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK?
>> NO HANDS ARE RAISED.
THANK YOU.
I SHALL CLOSE THE PUBLIC
HEARING AND I WILL NOW READ THE
PROPOSED MOTION THE ANN ARBOR
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION HEREBY
RECOMMENDS THAT THE MAYOR AND
CITY COUNCIL APPROVE AMENDMENTS
TO CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE SECTION FIVE
POINT ONE NINE TO SIMPLIFY AND
UPDATE THE REQUIRED PARKING
TABLES AND TO MAKE THE DESIGN
OF BICYCLE PARKING FACILITIES
MORE USER FRIENDLY MOVED BY
COMMISSIONER WHETHER IT BE
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER LEE WE
ARE NOW IN DISCUSSION WHO WOULD
LIKE TO KICK US OFF ALL ALL
RIGHT COMMISSIONER.
>> I JUST WANT TO TO TAKE YOU
UP ON THE OFFER TO ISSUE LIKE A
ONE PAGE GUIDELINE ABOUT
RECOMMENDED DROP DESIGN MAYBE
THE ONE I'M THINKING OF THAT
THE CITY HAS IS ONE ABOUT
RESIDENTIAL FENCING LIKE ONE
OF THESE KINDS OF THINGS.
USER-FRIENDLY YEAH.
AND THAT'S IT.
THANKS COMMISSIONER NORTON.
I WASN'T ABLE TO BE HERE AT THE
LAST MEETING SO I DON'T KNOW
WHAT WAS DISCUSSED.
SO MAYBE ASKING QUESTIONS THAT
WERE DISCUSSED BUT IF YOU BEAR
WITH ME I JUST HAVE TWO
QUESTIONS I'M NOT SURE SO
REGARDING MR. ABRAMS COMMENT
ARE IS THE SUGGESTION TO REMOVE
THE DESIGN DETAILS IN THE DRAFT
LANGUAGE AND REPLACE IT WITH
GUIDELINES OR NO, IT WAS TO ADD
MORE THERE WAS DISCUSSION ABOUT
RATHER THAN OR INCLUDING SINCE
WE HAVE SOME OF THE PROHIBITED
RACKS IN THERE, INCLUDING RACKS
THAT WE DO LIKE AND STAFF
RECOMMENDS HAVING THOSE AS
GUIDELINES RATHER THAN IN THE
REQUIREMENTS OF THE CODE .
>> AND SO THAT'S WE'RE HAPPY TO
MAKE A ONE PAGE OF YOUR
RECOMMENDATION TO DO EVEN
BETTER KIND OF THING.
OK, UM I WONDER ABOUT THE NEW
REQUIREMENTS CENTER WYKES
WITHIN THE PARKING SPACE
WOULDN'T IT BE BETTER JUST TO
SAY PLACE THE REC IN A WAY I'M
SORRY COMMISSIONER NORTON.
>> WE CANNOT HERE I'M SORRY.
>> MOVE YOUR MIKE CLOSER.
YEAH, I'M I'M JUST KIND
OF CRYING AND MAYBE THIS IS A
MINOR THING BUT IT'S A CENTER
THE BIKE RACKS AND I'M THINKING
WOULDN'T IT BE BETTER JUST TO
SAY POSITION THE BIKE RACK SO
YOU CAN PARK A BIKE SOMETHING
LIKE THAT BECAUSE MAYBE IF YOU
DON'T WANT A CENTER FOR SOME
REASON GIVEN THE SITE DESIGN
AND SEE WHAT I'M GETTING AT.
>> YEAH, I THINK I HAVE TO
THINK ABOUT SOMETIMES WHEN YOU
MAKE A REQUIREMENT TO SOLVE ONE
PROBLEM YOU'VE ACTUALLY
CREATED ANOTHER PROBLEM WHEN
WE'RE TRYING TO GET AT IS
POSITION THE BIKE RACK SO THAT
A BIKE CAN BE FEASIBLY PARKED
RIGHT.
SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
SO I WOULD SUGGEST KIND
OF RETHINKING THAT THAT PRECISE
LANGUAGE FROM THAT END.
>> AND THEN THE FINAL QUESTION
I HAVE IS ABOUT REMOVING THE
CLASSIC PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
MAYBE THIS WAS SOMETHING THAT
WAS DISCUSSED BUT I'M WONDERING
IF IF THERE'S A CHICKEN EGG
PROBLEM HERE AS WE IMPROVE
BIKING FACILITIES OTHERWISE
WELL, THOSE AREAS BE MORE USED
AND THEN WE'LL REGRET THAT WE
REMOVED THE REQUIREMENT TO
PROVIDE THEM.
>> WE HAVEN'T REMOVED THE
REQUIREMENT.
WE'VE JUST DECREASED YOU'RE
DECREASING IT.
SO THERE WILL STILL BE I THINK
IT'S ONE PER TEN UNITS IS THE
PROPOSAL FOR DOWNTOWN INSTEAD
OF WHAT IS RIGHT NOW IT'S BASED
ON SQUARE FOOTAGE.
SO IT'S MAYBE A LITTLE BETTER
CALIBRATED TO HOW PEOPLE
ACTUALLY USE SPACES.
>> WAS THIS SOMETHING THAT YOU
DISCUSSED OR JUST A LITTLE BIT
MR. COMMISSIONER NORTH BUT NOT
AT THE LEVEL OF DETAIL THAT
YOU'RE AT RIGHT NOW?
>> I'M JUST IN IN LINE WITH
TRYING TO ENCOURAGE PEOPLE TO
USE BICYCLES.
I'M WARY OF REDUCING
REQUIREMENTS TO PROVIDE SPACE
FOR PARKING BICYCLES.
>> RIGHT NOW IT'S ONE PER
TWENTY FIVE HUNDRED SQUARE FEET
IN THE DOWNTOWN DISTRICTS AND
SO WE WOULD BE DECREASING IT
NOW IT WOULD BE ONE PER TEN
UNITS AND THAT IS BECAUSE THE
THE EXISTING FACILITIES THAT WE
SAW AND SOME OF THEM WE THOUGHT
WERE GOOD FACILITIES.
SOME OF THEM HAD EASY ACCESS TO
THE EXTERIOR OF THE BUILDING ON
THE FIRST FLOOR HAD USABLE BIKE
RACKS IN THERE AND WE FOUND
THAT EVEN IN THE BEST
SITUATIONS WHAT STAFF FELT WERE
REALLY GOOD PARKING FACILITIES,
THEY WEREN'T BEING FULLY USED.
A LOT OF THE BIKES WERE NOT
CHAINED TO RACKS PROPERLY,
THINGS LIKE THAT AND IN
DISCUSSION WITH BUILDING
MANAGERS AND PEOPLE DURING
THESE SITE VISITS WE FOUND THAT
WE HEARD THAT PEOPLE WEREN'T
BRINGING THEIR BIKES THERE MORE
OFTEN WALKING OR USING PUBLIC
TRANSIT SPECIFICALLY IN THE
DOWNTOWN DISTRICT IN THE
DOWNTOWN.
>> OK, THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
OTHER COMMISSIONERS I JUST HAD
TWO THINGS AND THANK YOU A
PLANNER MARLENE COCHRANE FOR
ALL THE WORK THAT YOU HAVE DONE
ON THIS INCLUDING YOUR SITE
VISITS AND THE PRESENTATION AND
REPORTS THAT YOU HAVE ATTACHED
FOR THIS EFFORT.
>> ONE I WANT IT TO ECHO
COMMISSIONER ABRAMS COMMENT
AROUND A GUIDE.
I PARTICULARLY LIKE THE BOSTON
POST WHICH IS THE CIRCLE ONE.
>> THEY ARE SMALL.
IT'S EASY TO ATTACH.
>> WE DON'T HAVE TO DEAL WITH
COMMISSIONER NORTON'S WHERE TO
CENTER IT KIND OF CONCERN
THERE.
BUT I APPRECIATE YOUR WISDOM
AND PUTTING THAT IN A GUIDE AS
OPPOSED TO THE UDC SO THAT AS A
NEW PREFERRED BIKE POST EMERGES
WE WOULDN'T HAVE TO MAKE A UDC
CHANGE.
>> WE CAN JUST MAKE A GUY
SO PLUS ONE TO YOU FOR THAT MY
CHANGE.
OTHER I HAVE TWO MORE THINGS.
SO PLUS ONE TO YOU FOR THAT MY
>> ONE, I'LL DO THE FEEDBACK
OTHER I HAVE TWO MORE THINGS.
THAT WE GOT FROM STEPH SETH
>> ONE, I'LL DO THE FEEDBACK
PETERSEN WHICH WAS WAS THERE
THAT WE GOT FROM STEPH SETH
ANY CONSIDERATION GIVEN TO
PETERSEN WHICH WAS WAS THERE
COVERED CLASS PARKING THAT IS
ANY CONSIDERATION GIVEN TO
IN OUR CODE IT'S CLASS B
COVERED CLASS PARKING THAT IS
PARKING.
IN OUR CODE IT'S CLASS B
THANK YOU.
PARKING.
IT WAS A DISCUSSION THAT WE DID
THANK YOU.
HAVE EARLY ON IN THE ORACY IF
IT WAS A DISCUSSION THAT WE DID
WE SHOULD ONLY HAVE CLASS A
HAVE EARLY ON IN THE ORACY IF
ONLY LONG TERM AND ONLY CLASS C
WE SHOULD ONLY HAVE CLASS A
FIXED RACK'S NOT
COVERED AND
THERE WAS A BIG PUSH TO INCLUDE
COVERED PARKING SO THAT OUR
CLASS B IS COVERED CLASS SEE
WHICH IS STAYING AND WE HAVE
REQUIREMENTS FOR IT.
>> GREAT THANK YOU.
AND THEN MY MY BIGGER CONCERN
WHICH AND I'M SORRY MR. LEONARD
WHICH IS AROUND ENFORCEMENT
WHERE WHEN WE TALKED AT THE
NOVEMBER 5TH MEETING IT WAS
UNCLEAR WHO DOES THE
ENFORCEMENT I UNDERSTAND AT
SITE DEVELOPMENT IT IS PLANNING
AND SO THE ENFORCEMENT OCCURS
THERE.
HOWEVER ONCE WE ARE IN THE
BUILT ENVIRONMENT IT SEEMS AS
IF THERE IS A LACK
OF ENFORCEMENT AND SO WE THAT
CAN YOU ELUCIDATE ME FOR JUST A
MOMENT NOT TOO LONG JUST A
MOMENT AROUND HOW ENFORCEMENT
IS GOING TO BE HANDLED AS WE
MAKE THESE ADJUSTMENTS?
>> WELL, I WANT TO REITERATE
SOMETHING WE TALKED ABOUT LAST
TIME CHANGES TO THE
REQUIREMENTS WOULD BE
PROSPECTIVE.
SO THAT MEANS THEY'RE NOT
RETROACTIVE.
THEY DON'T THEY WOULD NOT
RETROACTIVELY APPLY TO A BIKE
RACK THAT EXISTS IN OUR CITY
TODAY.
BUT THEY ARE ZONING STANDARDS.
SO THAT WOULD BE THE
RESPONSIBILITY OF MY TEAM TO
ENFORCE.
I WILL HONESTLY TELL YOU THAT
WE ARE LARGELY A COMPLETE BASED
ENFORCEMENT ACTIVITY.
WE ARE NOT PROACTIVELY OUT, YOU
KNOW, WITH SITE PLANS TO MAKE
SURE THAT SITES ARE BEING
MAINTAINED AND THAT BUT IF A
COMPLAINT IS RAISED THAT'S HOW
WE WOULD DO IT.
>> I ALSO SAY CAN I PAUSE YOU
THERE JUST TO INTERRUPT JUST
FOR ONE COULD YOU DESCRIBE FOR
ME AS IF I DON'T KNOW HOW TO
COMPLAIN ABOUT A BIKE RACK THAT
IS NONCONFORMING NOW I WOULD GO
ABOUT DOING THAT.
>> WE HAVE GOTTEN ZONING
CONCERNS RAISED WITH THE QUICK
FIX SYSTEM.
WE HAVE GOTTEN EMAILS TO OUR
PLANNING AT A TWO GUBJRG
EMAIL.
WE'VE GOTTEN PHONE CALLS TO OUR
DEPARTMENT.
THEY COME IN A VARIETY
OF MANNERS.
THE LAST PIECE I WOULD SAY IS
THAT IT IT IS A QUESTION
OF PRIORITIZATION WHERE WE PUT
OUR RESOURCES IS ENFORCING BIKE
PARKING COMPARED TO ENFORCING
SIGNAGE COMPARED TO ENFORCING
OUTDOOR LIGHTING, COMPARED TO
REVIEWING PERMITS.
IT'S AN IT'S JUST NOT GOING A
RESOURCE QUESTION.
BUT ULTIMATELY I WOULD SAY THAT
THAT ENFORCEMENT OF THESE BIKE
RACKS WOULD FALL ON ME AND MY
TEAM.
>> ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU, MR. LEONARD.
ARE THERE ANY OTHER COMMENTS
FROM COMMISSIONERS SEEING NONE.
>> ARE YOU READY TO VOTE?
>> MR. LEONARD, COULD YOU DO A
ROLL CALL VOTE OR CAN WE DO A
VOICE VOTE?
>> A ROLL CALL VOTE PLEASE FILL
IN OR SHALL WE DO A ROLL CALL
VOTE.
>> ALL RIGHT.
SO THIS IS THE PROPOSED TEXT
AMENDMENT AS PRESENTED IN YOUR
PACKAGE THIS EVENING,
COMMISSIONER WHITECHURCH YES.
>> COMMISSIONER ABRAMS.
YES, COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT.
YES.
COMMISSIONER.
YES, COMMISSIONER.
OUR DISH YES.
>> COMMISSIONER WEATHERBEE.
YES, COMMISSIONER ADAMS.
>> YES.
COMMISSIONER NORTON.
YES.
MOTION CARRIES ITS NEXT STOP IS
TO APPEAR ON A CITY COUNCIL
AGENDA.
THANK YOU AND THANKS AGAIN.
PLANER MILLION COPYWRITING FOR
SUCH AN EXCELLENT REVISION TO
OUR BIKE INFRASTRUCTURE AND
POLICY.
>> ARE WE GOING TO BE JOINED BY
PLANNER BENNET MR. LEONARD,
WHAT WOULD IT BE OK TO TAKE A
SEAT?
THAT'S WHY I WAS GOING TO TAKE
A RECESS.
>> WE WERE GOING TO BE JOINED
SO WE WILL RECESS FOR TEN
MINUTES AND WE'LL BE BACK AT
SIX FORTY EIGHT
HOUR.
>> RIGHT.
WE ARE NOW BACK IN SESSION AND
WE WANT TO MOVE ON TO AGENDA
ITEM NUMBER TEN WHICH IS
REGULAR BUSINESS.
>> THERE IS NONE AND THAT TAKES
US TO AGENDA ITEM ELEVEN.
A OTHER BUSINESS COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN REVIEW PERIOD DISCUSSION
THE EXCUSE ME THE PLANNING
COMMISSION WILL REVIEW A
COMPLETE LIST OF EDITS FOR
DRAFT THREE OF THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SIMILAR TO
THE PREVIOUS ROUNDS OF EDITS
PUBLIC COMMENTS ACCEPTED
THROUGH THE PROJECT PAGE OUR
FOUND EXCUSE ME FOUND ON ENGAGE
A TWO GUBJRG ARE ALSO
INCLUDED IN THE PACKET AND WE
WILL START WITH A STAFF
PRESENTATION FROM PLANNER
BENNET.
>> WELCOME.
GOOD EVENING.
I WANTED TO START WITH THIS THE
SLIDES THAT ARE IN YOUR PACKET
THESE ARE THE SAME THAT I
PRESENTED ON OCTOBER SEVEN SO I
WASN'T GOING TO GO INTO INTO
TOO MUCH DETAIL BUT I WANTED IT
PUBLIC TO REMIND EVERYONE
OF OUR TIMELINE.
WE ARE CURRENTLY IN THE REVIEW
PERIOD THAT'S THE STATE
MANDATED PERIOD THAT THIS PLAN
HAS TO BE OPEN BEFORE IT CAN BE
APPROVED.
SO THIS IS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION'S FIRST MEETING
WHERE WE ARE DISCUSSING THE
COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN
DURING THAT PERIOD WHICH IS NOW
DON'T QUOTE ME ON THIS BUT I
THINK LIKE A SEVENTY EIGHT DAY
PERIOD WE ADDED ABOUT TWO WEEKS
BECAUSE IT FELL RIGHT BEFORE
THE HOLIDAYS SO WE EXTENDED
THAT THROUGH TO JANUARY 5TH.
>> SO THAT SLIDE SHOW STARTS
WITH THE THE TIMELINE MEANING
THAT JANUARY 5TH IS WHEN THIS
CLOSES AND THEN IT'S NOT UNTIL
FEBRUARY OR MARCH AS OF NOW
THAT WE WOULD BE HOLDING THE
PUBLIC HEARINGS FOR THESE TWO
TO BE APPROVED.
>> SO WE ARE STILL VERY MUCH UM
,IN DRAFT MODE AND WE'LL BE
DISCUSSING THE PLANNING
COMMISSION'S EDITS TONIGHT.
I ALSO BROKE DOWN SORT OF HOW
THE PLAN IS ORGANIZED FOR THE
PUBLIC IF YOU HAVEN'T FAMILIAR
YOURSELF YET WITH THE PLAN, YOU
CAN SEE THE BREAKDOWN CHAPTER
BY CHAPTER OF HOW THE PLAN IS
LAID OUT AND THEN THE LAST
COUPLE SLIDES SHOW ALL OF THE
MAJOR CHANGES THAT HAVE BEEN
MADE SINCE DRAFT ONE AND THOSE
ARE IN PART FROM DISCUSSION THE
PLANNING COMMISSION IN PART
CHANGES FROM COUNCIL THAT WERE
REQUESTED AND FROM PUBLIC
COMMENT.
>> UM, SO WITH THAT I THINK
WE'LL BE SPENDING THE MAJORITY
OF OUR TIME HERE THIS EVENING
GOING OVER THE EDITS THESE WERE
FORMATTED SIMILARLY TO THE LAST
ROUND OF EDITS SO I REVIEWED
ALL OF THE COMMISSIONERS THAT
SUBMITTED AN ORGANIZE THEM BY
DISCUSSION WHICH IS WHERE I
THINK WE'LL BE SPENDING THE
MAJORITY OF OUR TIME.
AND THEN THE SECOND CATEGORY IS
STAFF SUPPORTED EDITS.
THOSE EDITS STILL CAME FROM THE
PLANNING COMMISSION BUT STAFF
FEELS THAT THEY HAVE ENOUGH
INFORMATION AND ARE IN
AGREEMENT AND WE WILL MAKE
THOSE UNLESS YOU ALL FEEL LIKE
ONE OF THOSE NEEDS TO BE
BROUGHT UP TO DISCUSSION, THEN
WE CAN ALWAYS DISCUSS THOSE AS
WELL.
>> AND THEN THE LAST CATEGORY
IS FACTUAL.
IT'S MAINLY TYPOS OR YOU GOT
THE STATE WRONG THAT WE AGREE
WITH AND WE WILL MAKE THOSE AS
WELL FOR THE NEXT ROUND.
>> SO MY PLAN WAS JUST TO START
AT THE TOP WHERE IT SAYS
DISCUSSION AND GO THROUGH AND
TAKE NOTES ON WHAT YOU ALL SAY.
AND IF WE DO GET TO AN AREA
WHERE WE DON'T HAVE CONSENSUS,
WE WILL RELY ON WHAT WE DID THE
LAST ROUND OF EDITORS DO A
STRAW POLL VOTE SO THAT STAFF
HAS DIRECTION ON WHAT TO DO
AFTER THE MEETING.
>> GREAT.
SO IN ORDER TO HELP FACILITATE
OUR MOVEMENT THROUGH THESE
EDITS WE I WILL NOT RECOGNIZE
ANY COMMISSIONER YOU WANT TO
SPEAK JUST ON MUTE AND SPEAK SO
THAT WE CAN MOVE ALONG IF WE
GET BOGGED DOWN IN A DISCUSSION
I WILL INTERRUPT THE DISCUSSION
AND ASK THAT EMOTION BE
PROPOSED AND SECONDED AND THEN
WE WILL TAKE A VOTE AT THE
TABLE TO ADOPT A LANGUAGE THAT
WE NEED TO TO GIVE TO STAFF.
>> DOES ANYONE AT THE TABLE
HAVE A QUESTION OR CLARIFY
POINT OR WOULD PREFER A
DIFFERENT PROCESS?
OK WITH THAT I WILL TURN IT
BACK TO YOU SHORT SO THE FIRST
TWO EDITS HAVE TO DO WITH
HISTORIC DISTRICTS THAT'S
SUGGESTED IT BE ON PAGE FIFTY
EIGHT IN 60 UM AND I SUPPOSE AS
I INTRODUCE THEM I WILL LET THE
PLANNING COMMISSIONER WHO
SUBMITTED THEM IF THEY FEEL
COMFORTABLE TO EXPLAIN MORE
ABOUT WHERE THEY'RE COMING
FROM.
BUT I THINK THIS THE PURPOSE
OF THESE TWO COMMENTS ARE TO
ADDRESS SOME OF THE COMMENTS
WE'VE HEARD FROM THE PUBLIC
ABOUT WANTING MORE IN A
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ABOUT
HISTORIC DISTRICTS AND I I'M
THE ONE WHO ARE PROPOSING THESE
AMENDMENTS AND THAT'S EXACTLY
WHAT THEY'RE DOING.
WE'VE HEARD A LOT OF COMMENTS
ABOUT THE LACK OF ATTENTION,
THE PLAN TO THE HISTORIC
DISTRICTS.
I AGREE WITH THAT STATEMENT AND
I ALSO FOUND THAT KIND OF QUASI
POLICY STATEMENT IN
PAGE SIXTY
TO BE CONFUSING AND NOT VERY
HELPFUL.
SO THE FIRST SET OF COMMENTS
I'M PROPOSING WOULD GO ON PAGE
FIFTY EIGHT WHICH IF YOU LOOK
ON THE DRAFT PLAN ARE KEY
CONSIDERATIONS RELATING TO
NEIGHBORHOODS.
IT SEEMED LIKE AN APPROPRIATE
PLACE TO ME TO PUT THEM
ALTHOUGH IT'S BETTER JUST POINT
OUT TO MAYBE COULD GO OTHER
PLACES.
I DON'T I'M NOT REALLY FIXED ON
THAT BUT THE PURPOSE OF THESE
AMENDMENTS ARE TO PROVIDE
FACTUAL STATEMENTS ABOUT THE
RELATIONSHIP, HOW HISTORIC
DISTRICT DISTRICT WORK AND WHAT
THEIR RELATIONSHIP IS TO THE
PLAN.
I DON'T KNOW.
I'M HOPING THAT YOU ALL HAD A
CHANCE TO REVIEW THESE BEFORE.
I DON'T KNOW THAT I NEED TO
READ THEM VERBATIM.
I THINK THEY'RE JUST FACTUAL
STATEMENTS THAT PROVIDE THAT
CLARIFICATION.
SO I WOULD LIKE TO HAVE THEM
ADDED FOR THAT PURPOSE.
THE SECOND RECOMMENDATION IS ON
PAGE SIXTY HERE I'M PROPOSING I
WILL READ THIS ONE.
I THINK THE WAY THIS STATEMENT
IS CURRENTLY FRAMED FRANKLY IS
CONFUSING TO ME AND I DON'T
ESPECIALLY UNDERSTAND AGAIN THE
LAST SENTENCE THE WAY THIS
PARAGRAPH FINISHES OFF.
I DON'T UNDERSTAND WHAT MESSAGE
IT'S TRYING TO SEND OR WHAT
POINT IT'S TRYING TO MAKE OR
WHAT WHAT IT'S SUGGESTING.
SO I TRIED TO PROVIDE A MORE
CLEAR STATEMENT ABOUT WHAT
WE'RE PROPOSING, HOW WE'RE
VIEWING HOW WE'RE VIEWING THIS
AND THE ROLE IT PLAYS IN THE
PLAN.
SO MY RECOLLECTION IS THAT WE
HAD ALREADY AGREED AS A
COMMISSION TO MAKE THIS
STATEMENT THAT THE PLAN DOESN'T
TAKE A POSITION ON THE
MODIFICATION TO OUR CREATION
OF THE DISTRICTS BUT AND TO
RECOGNIZE SO I GUESS WHAT I'M
ADDING IS THEN TO RECOGNIZE
THAT THE DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
REQUIREMENTS WILL CONTINUE TO
FOLLOW THE BOUNDARIES AND
STANDARDS ESTABLISHED BY THE
HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION
FOLLOWING THE PROCESS THAT YOU
FOLLOW FOR HISTORIC DISTRICTS
AND THEN THE NEXT STATEMENT OR
THE FINAL STATEMENT IS IS A
STATEMENT THAT THE PLAN THE
CITY SHOULD SUPPORT
OPPORTUNITIES FOR INCREASES IN
MIDDLE HOUSING DENSITY WITHIN
HISTORIC DISTRICTS WHERE WHEN
APPROPRIATE CONSISTENT BOTH
WITH THE GOAL OF INCREASING
DENSITY THROUGHOUT THE CITY IN
CONSISTENT WITH THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT COMMISSION STANDARDS
AND GUIDELINES FOR
MODIFICATIONS HERE I'M THINKING
OF INSTANCES I'M THINKING
OF THINGS LIKE THE DRY CLEANING
PLACE THAT WAS JUST REMOVED AND
NOW WE'VE GOT AN OPPORTUNITY TO
PUT IN SOME HOMES THAT WERE
APPROVED BY THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT COMMISSION.
THERE WILL BE CHANGES TO THE
HISTORIC DISTRICTS THAT OPEN
THE OPPORTUNITY TO PROVIDE SOME
DENSITY AND AS LONG AS THEY CAN
BE DONE CONSISTENT WITH
HISTORIC DISTRICT GUIDELINES, I
THINK IT'S ENTIRELY CONSISTENT
WITH US TO PROVIDE SUPPORT FOR
THAT KIND OF MODIFICATION.
SO SO AGAIN, I'LL JUST SORT
OF RAMBLING.
I'LL JUST SAY I'M PUTTING THESE
FORWARD TO PROVIDE SOME
CLARIFICATION THAT I THINK
FOLKS WANT TO SEE THAT I THINK
WOULD ADD TO THE PLAN AS AN
INFORMATIONAL INFORMATIONAL AND
MORE PRECISE AND CLEAR
STATEMENT ABOUT HOW WE SEE THE
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE PLAN
AND THE DISTRICT'S GUIDELINES.
SO I'M ASKING THAT THESE
MODIFICATIONS BE APPROVED AND
I'M HAPPY TO ANSWER QUESTIONS.
>> PLEASE DON'T LOOK TO ME TO
BE ACKNOWLEDGED TO SPEAK PLEASE
ON MUTE AND SPEAK ABOUT MAYBE
JUST A QUESTION ABOUT PROCESS.
WHAT'S THE PROCESS BY WHICH WE
WOULD SAY YES OR NO?
WE WERE VOTING ON THESE.
>> I KNOW WE'RE GOING TO TALK
ABOUT THEM FIRST IF WE GET
BOGGED DOWN IN TALKING ABOUT
THEM THEN WE WILL GO TO A
SOMEONE WILL PROPOSE A MOTION.
WE'RE NOT QUITE THERE FROM
WHERE COMMISSIONER NORTON IS
AND THEN WE'LL TAKE A VOTE TO
GET PRECISE EDITS TO STAFF SO
STAFF DOESN'T HAVE TO DISCERN
WHAT WE WANT TO DO.
>> SO WE'LL START WITH
COMMISSIONER ADAMS THEN COME
BACK TO YOU AND THEN SEE IF ANY
OTHER COMMISSIONERS WANT TO
WEIGH IN.
>> COMMISSIONER ADAM, I JUST
WANT TO SAY I SUPPORT THESE
CHANGES WHETHER THEY'RE WELL
DRAFTED AND CONSISTENT I THINK
WITH WHERE I'M AT FROM A POLICY
PERSPECTIVE JUST YOU KNOW,
STAYING NEUTRAL, RESPECTING OUR
ROLE SEPARATE FROM HISTORIC
DISTRICT COMMISSION, THE FACT
THAT WE DON'T HAVE A RECORD AND
WE DIDN'T SET OUR PROCESS UP TO
GENERATE THE SORT OF RECORD
THAT YOU WOULD NEED TO HAVE TO
NOT SORT OF BE EXPRESSLY
NEUTRAL ON THE BOUNDARIES
OF THESE DISTRICTS AND I THINK
THAT THIS PROVIDES ADDITIONAL
EXPLANATION FOR THEIR
EXISTENCE, WHAT THEY ARE, WHAT
WE'RE SAYING ABOUT THEM AND
IT'S A MUCH BETTER RECORD TO
STAND A.
THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER ADAMS.
YES.
ABRAM'S OH SORRY YOU ARE NOT I
MEAN I DID SAY AT THE BEGINNING
COMMISSIONER ADAMS THEN ABRAMS
AND THEN WHETHER YOU WOULD
CHECK WITH EVERYONE ELSE SO
LET'S DO THAT AND THEN I'LL
STOP TO YOU KNOW, I JUST I ALSO
SUPPORT THIS I THINK MAYBE I
WOULD LIKE TO JUST CLARIFY
WHERE THE FIRST ONE IS GOING TO
GO BECAUSE FIFTY EIGHT IS NOT
AN APPROPRIATE PLACE SINCE
THAT'S ABOUT RETAIL.
>> SO YEAH.
SO MAYBE IF YOU HAVE AN IDEA
ABOUT WHERE IT SHOULD GO IT
JUST BE HELPFUL FOR US TO KNOW
WHAT IT IS WHERE WHERE GOES
THAT'S ALL.
>> BUT I SUPPORT THEM GENERALLY
.
>> COMMISSIONER WETHERBEE, THE
BATON HAS BEEN PASSED AND I
JUST WANT TO AGREE I THINK THIS
IS HELPFUL.
I ESPECIALLY LIKE THE WHILE NOT
PART OF A LOCAL ZONING
CODE BECAUSE OUR HISTORIC
DISTRICTS DO HAVE UNDERLYING
ZONING NOW.
>> SO HAVING THEM HAVE
UNDERLYING ZONING IN THE FUTURE
IS HELPFUL AND THIS DOESN'T
STILL CHANGE THEIR HISTORIC
DISTRICT.
MISS SO I THINK THIS IS THIS IS
VERY HELPFUL TO ADD.
SO I AGREE THEY WOULD JUST BE
ONE YOU NEED TO UNMUTED SO THAT
WE CAN HEAR YOU AND IT CAN BE
IN THE PUBLIC RECORD.
WE'RE NOT SO CASUAL THAT WE
JUST THE WORD INTO EITHER NEEDS
TO BE CLOSE IN TO DOWNTOWN OR
JUST CLOSE TO DOWNTOWN IN THE
FIRST SENTENCE OF THE SECOND
PARAGRAPH I CAN'T YEAH I THINK
THAT'S
ANYONE ELSE.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT,
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU FOR DRAFTING THIS.
COMMISSIONER NORTON, I
SIMILARLY WE'VE HEARD A LOT
OF FEEDBACK ABOUT HISTORIC
DISTRICTS AND I'VE BEEN
STRUGGLING WITH SORT OF THE
APPROPRIATE WAY TO TAKE THAT
INTO ACCOUNT AND I REALLY LIKE
THIS PARTICULARLY THE REWRITE
OF THE PARAGRAPH ON PAGE SIXTY
AND SIMILAR TO COMMISSIONER
ABRAMS I THINK FOR THE EDIT
RECOMMENDED FOR PAGE FIFTY
EIGHT WE NEED TO FIGURE OUT THE
BEST PLACE FOR IT.
I DON'T KNOW IF IT'S A BOX OR
IF IT'S JUST IN A DIFFERENT
SECTION BUT I'M ALSO VERY
SUPPORTIVE OF THESE CHANGES FOR
MY PART I ALSO ECHO
COMMISSIONER ABRAMS COMMENT
AROUND PAGE FIFTY.
>> IT DOESN'T FEEL LIKE THAT'S
THE RIGHT PLACE FOR IT TO GO
BECAUSE A LOT OF THE THE
CONTENT THAT YOU ARE PROPOSING
IN THOSE TWO PARAGRAPHS IS
PRESENT ON PAGE SIXTY IN THE
THIRD PARAGRAPH.
>> SO HISTORIC DISTRICT
BOUNDARIES AND DEVELOPMENT WILL
CONTINUE TO FOLLOW STANDARD
DESIGN GUIDELINES ESTABLISHED
BY THE HISTORIC DISTRICT
COMMISSION SO I WONDER IF THERE
ARE OR IF YOU ARE OPENING OPEN
TO JUST MERGING EVERYTHING INTO
THIS SECTION ON PAGE SIXTY.
>> I THINK MY INTENT WAS FOR
THE FIRST PARAGRAPH TO BE JUST
INFORMATIONAL TO PROVIDE
BACKGROUND AND FOR THE SECOND
STATEMENT IS MORE THE STRATEGY
WHICH IS WHAT THE WHAT'S BEING
PRESENTED ON PAGE SIXTY PLANNER
BENNET SUGGESTED MAYBE THE
STUFF THAT I WAS SUGGESTING FOR
PAGE FIFTY IT WOULD GO BETTER
EARLIER IN THE PLAN IN THE
SNAPSHOT IN THE SNAPSHOT
SECTION OR IN ARBOR TODAY.
>> SO YEAH SO THAT'S WHERE I
WAS STRUGGLING WHETHER BECAUSE
YOU WOULD THERE'S NOT AN
OBVIOUS PLACE FOR IT TO GO.
>> SO I I WONDERED I UNDERSTAND
THE BACKGROUND.
>> I WONDERED IF THAT WASN'T A
FOOTNOTE OR IN THE INDEX.
SO WHEN WE FIRST INTRODUCED
HISTORIC DISTRICTS THEN THERE'S
A FOOTNOTE TO THE PARAGRAPH
THAT YOU'RE PROPOSING FOR PAGE
FIFTY EIGHT THAT THEN EXPLAINS
THAT AND THEN THE EDITS THAT
YOU'RE PROPOSING FOR PAGE SIXTY
CAN BE THE IT'S THAT ARE BEING
PROPOSED THERE SINCE YOU'RE
REPLACING THE CONTENT THERE AS
WE APPROACH THE STRATEGY IN THE
LAST YEAR.
>> SO I STARTED BY SAYING I
DON'T THINK YOUR PROPOSALS FOR
PAGE SHOULD GO ON PAGE FIFTY
EIGHT.
>> YEAH.
THEN YOU EXPLAINED THAT YOU
FELT LIKE THIS WAS AN
INTRODUCTION.
>> IT'S BACKGROUND INFORMATION
THAT'S LIKE THE REST OF THE
PLAN LIKE THE SNAPSHOT IS
PRESENTING HISTORY AND
BACKGROUND TO FRAME THEN THE
GOALS AND THE STRATEGIES THAT
COME LATER THE PLAN AND SO THAT
MY SUGGESTION WAS IF IT IS
BACKGROUND INFORMATION OR
SNAPSHOT INFORMATION THERE
ISN'T A CLEAR LOGICAL PLACE
THAT I CAN SEE IN THE PLAN
EARLIER WHERE IT WOULD GO IT
WOULD HAVE TO REPLACE SOMETHING
OR WE'D HAVE TO ADD A NEW PAGE
TO GET THAT MUCH TEXT INTO THE
PLAN AS IT'S PRESENTED.
>> SO I WAS THEN PROPOSING WHEN
WE FIRST REFERENCE A HISTORIC
DISTRICT THEN THERE IS A
FOOTNOTE TO WHAT YOU HAVE
PROPOSED AS THAT EXPLAINER.
>> SO YOU WOULD PUT ALL OF THAT
TEXT INTO FOOTNOTE NOT IN A
FOOTNOTE ON THE PAGE.
>> IT WOULD BE A NOTE I GUESS
FOR THIS DOCUMENT.
BUT BECAUSE I'M I'M STRUGGLING
TO FIND WHERE TO PUT THAT TEXT
BECAUSE IT DOESN'T FIT THE
SECTION THAT IT'S BEING
PROPOSED IN THE SECTION THAT
YOU HAVE REFERENCED THE
SNAPSHOT I DON'T SEE A CLEAR
PLACE FOR IT TO GO THERE IF
SOMEONE WANTS TO SUGGEST
SOMETHING I'M HAPPY TO
ENTERTAIN.
>> THAT WAS MY RECOMMENDATION.
I WOULD RATHER MAYBE CREATE A
SEPARATE HEADING IN THE HISTORY
POSITIONING THIS PLAN IN
HISTORY.
I DON'T KNOW THAT WE NEED TO
WORRY ABOUT FORMATTING RIGHT
NOW.
RIGHT.
I THINK WE'RE GOING TO BE
MAKING CHANGES THAT ARE GOING
TO REQUIRE REFORMATTING THINGS
HERE AND THERE.
>> WELL, I JUST DON'T KNOW
WHERE IT'S GOING I GUESS.
>> SEE, I DON'T HAVE THAT TYPE
OF STUFF AND THE CONSULTANTS
FIGURE OUT WHERE TO PUT IT IF
WE SAY WHERE WE THINK IT'S
APPROPRIATE WE WOULD COME BACK
TO IT AND APPROVE IT WHEN IT
COMES BACK AS ANOTHER EDIT I I
DON'T KNOW ANOTHER OPTION FOR
HAPPENING.
I DON'T THINK THAT'S HAPPENING.
IS IT IT WOULD BE GO BACK TO
YOU WITH THE CHANGE MAYBE WE
WOULD HAVE TO HAVE TO SEE THE
CHANGES THAT WERE MADE BEFORE
WE WOULD ADVANCE IT ANOTHER
TIME.
>> SO I'M JUST CONCERNED ABOUT
ANY CHANGE THAT GETS MADE THIS
EVENING.
YEAH, AND I'M CONCERNED THAT IT
COMES BACK IN A PLACE THAT
DOESN'T MAKE SENSE AND THEN
THAT PREVENTS US FROM GOING
FORWARD.
SO IF WE COULD AT THE TABLE
FIND A PLACE FOR IT THEN I, I
FEEL OK WITH IT.
I DON'T THINK I'M I'M SAYING IT
SHOULDN'T BE PRESENT.
>> I'M JUST TRYING TO FIGURE
OUT WHERE I MIGHT BE HESITANT
TO HAVE IT GO IN AS A FOOTNOTE
BECAUSE I THINK IT'LL GET LOST
BUT I'M HAPPY FOR THIS STAFF TO
FIGURE OUT WHERE THEY THINK IS
THE MOST LOGICAL PLACE FOR IT
TO GO.
>> OK, COMMISSIONER WETHERBEE,
I'M WONDERING ABOUT ON PAGE 52
WHERE IT TALKS ABOUT KEY
CONSIDERATIONS FOR HOUSING
DEVELOPMENT AND THEN THERE'S
THE MAP THAT'S ON PAGE 53.
>> THAT'S LESS THAN THIRTEEN
PERCENT OF THE CITY'S LAND IS
AVAILABLE FOR REDEVELOPMENT
THAT IT MIGHT FIT SOMEWHERE IN
THERE UNDER HOUSING DEVELOPMENT
.
>> I DON'T KNOW.
SO ON THE LEFT OF PAGE 52.
>> YEAH, BUT I WE WOULD
PROBABLY HAVE TO EDIT WHAT YOU
PROPOSE TO GET IT TO FIT IN
THAT SPACE BUT I'M I WOULDN'T
CHANGE IMPORTANT TEXT FOR THE
SAKE OF FORMATTING.
I THINK THAT I THINK THE
PLANNING CONSULTANT CAN PLAY
WITH THE FORMATTING TO MAKE
MAKE WORK WHAT WE NEED TO HAVE
DONE AGREED.
>> YEAH AND I'M GUESSING THERE
WILL BE OTHER SUBSTANTIVE
CHANGES THAT ARE GOING TO MAKE
UP THE FORMATTING.
SO I THINK THE FORMATTING IS
THE LEAST OF THAT'S SOMETHING
THAT WE CAN FIGURE OUT AFTER
THE PHASE WHERE IF ONCE WE
FIGURE OUT WHERE THE RIGHT
PLACE FOR THIS INFORMATION TO
GO WOULD BE.
>> SO I WANT TO CHECK THE
TABLE.
>> ARE WE OK WITH IT GOING ON
PAGE 52 AS COMMISSIONER
WEATHERBEE JUST SUGGESTED?
YES, YEAH, I'M WAITING AND
MAYBE WE COULD ALSO MAKE A CASE
FOR CONSIDERATION AND IT COULD
GET A TOTAL KIND OF SUBHEADINGS
FOR DISTRICTS OR SOMETHING LIKE
THAT.
>> I IT COULD GO IN FIFTY ONE
BECAUSE THEY'RE IT'S ALSO WHAT
WE'VE HEARD.
YEAH.
AND SO THAT WOULD FEEL VERY
NATURAL TO ME AND THERE'S A LOT
OF SPACE THERE SO BOTH CONCERNS
GET ADDRESSED.
>> SO CAN WE GET TO AGREEMENT
ON EITHER PAGE FIFTY ONE OR 52
AND WILL ALLOW STAFF TO DECIDE
YEAH OK ALL RIGHT THANK YOU.
>> I THINK WE'RE GETTING WHAT
WE HEARD IT'S OK.
>> SO YES JUST TO BE CLEAR UM
THE THE ONLY EDIT THEN IS FOR
THIS WHAT WE'VE BEEN TALKING
ABOUT FOR ON PAGE FIFTY EIGHT
THE ONE ON PAGE SIXTY IS OK AS
IS BECAUSE IT'S REPLACING IT'S
GOING TO REPLACE THE TEXT
THAT'S OK.
GREAT.
ARE WE READY FOR THE NEXT ONE.
I THINK WE ARE OK THE NEXT EDIT
COVERS A FEW DIFFERENT PAGES
PAGES SIXTY ONE THIRTEEN AND
ONE SIXTEEN AND COMES WITH SOME
RENDERINGS ON PAGE ELEVEN.
>> UM I THINK WE HAVE BRIEFLY
DISCUSSED THIS BEFORE BUT
DIDN'T HAVE MUCH TIME TO DO SO
.
OK I'LL LET ALL RIGHT
COMMISSIONER ANTHONY BACK
AGAIN.
>> I THINK WE ACTUALLY DID
DISCUSS THIS OR I RAISED IT IN
AND IT DIDN'T THERE WASN'T
SUPPORT FOR IT AT THE TABLE
THIS TIME IT'S BEEN SHARED
AGAIN MOSTLY BECAUSE I SHARED
WITH CITY COUNCIL AS WELL GOOD
.
I'M SORRY.
OK, UM CAN I PAUSE YOU FOR A
SECOND PLANE OR IS IT POSSIBLE
FOR YOU TO SHARE YOUR SCREEN
WITH THE AUDIENCE JUST BECAUSE
THEY HAVE NO IDEA WHAT WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT?
YES.
THANK YOU BUT THIS IS JUST
LAYING OUT SORRY ONE MORE TIME
AND TO BE SPECIFIC I'M TALKING
ABOUT THE RENDERINGS.
>> UH, YES, I DID LOG IN TO THE
ZOOM SO IT'LL BE IN MINUTE.
>> CAN YOU ASK FIRST I THINK
WHAT KIND OF DESCRIBE WHAT IT
IS OK.
OH OK.
I JUST
KNOW PERSONALLY OH WHO
DID THAT.
OH I JUST WAS SLIGHTLY OVER
THERE.
DO YOU WANT TO GO TO THE I I
WOULD LIKE TO SEE THE OR THE
ACTUAL ABRAMS IS DISCUSSING WE
CAN HAVE A VISUAL YEAH I MEAN I
CAN I CAN MAYBE MORE JUST BE
HERE TO ANSWER QUESTIONS THAN
TO EXPLAIN IT ALL AGAIN BUT THE
MY GENERAL COMMENT HERE IS THAT
CURRENTLY THE PLAN LIMITS BY
DEVELOPMENT TO TRY FLUXES WHICH
I UNDERSTAND TO BE A LIMIT THAT
CITY COUNCIL ASKED US TO WRITE
INTO THE PLAN AND AS A WAY
OF MAKING SURE THAT ANYTHING
BIGGER THAN IS SOMETHING THAT
WOULD HAVE VERY PARTICULAR
CONSTRAINTS AND LIMITATIONS AND
WE TYPICALLY REGULATE IN
RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOODS BY
AREA AND PLACEMENT.
SO WE HAVE SETBACKS.
WE HAVE HEIGHT LIMITS AND THESE
DIAGRAMS ARE JUST MEANT TO SHOW
THAT ACTUALLY A COMPLEX FIT I
THINK INTO A KIND OF INTO THE
SAME BUILDING VOLUME AS A
DUPLEX OR A SINGLE FAMILY HOME
AND THAT TRIPLEX IF YOU THINK
ABOUT IT AS THREE STACKED
APARTMENTS WOULD PROBABLY BE TO
A TALLER BUILDING THAN A
COMPLEX WHICH COULD BE A TWO
STOREY BUILDING DIVIDED INTO
FOUR.
AND FROM A DESIGN PERSPECTIVE
IT JUST MAKES SENSE TO TO KIND
OF SPLIT THINGS SYMMETRICALLY.
SO I WANTED TO PUT ON THE TABLE
THE POSSIBILITY THAT WE'RE
CURRENTLY SAYS CLUCK'S WE
CHANGE THAT TO SAY FOURPLEX OR
COMPLEX THAT HAPPENS THREE
TIMES ON PAGE SIXTY ONE
THIRTEEN AND ONE SIXTEEN AND I
MAYBE ALSO JUST WANT TO
UNDERSCORE THAT THIS IS NOT AN
ARGUMENT FOR INCREASED DENSITY
IN TERMS OF BUILDING MASS BUT
ACTUALLY KEEPING THE SAME
BUILDING MASS BUT JUST HAVING
SOMETHING THAT MAKES MORE
SENSE.
THE TRIPLEX LIMIT TO ME ALWAYS
SEEMED ARBITRARY.
I DIDN'T REALLY UNDERSTAND
WHERE IT CAME FROM AND I'M
HAPPY TO ANSWER QUESTIONS.
>> THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
LET'S TALK ABOUT IT SO I'LL
I'LL START AND JUST SINCE I
DON'T HAVE TO PUT MYSELF IN
FRONT OF CITY COUNCIL AND JUST
SAY I THINK THAT THE TRIPLEX IS
IT'S RANDOM AND IT IS NOT BASED
IN ANY PARTICULAR FACT OTHER
THAN THAT THAT'S WHAT COUNCIL
DETERMINED PEOPLE WERE OK WITH.
SO THAT'S THEIR RIGHT AND I'M
NOT SURE THAT IF WE SEND THIS
FORWARD IN A QUAD LIKE THAT I
THINK COUNCIL WILL JUST CHANGE
AND PEOPLE WILL BE UPSET.
AND SO WHILE I AGREE THAT I I I
NEVER UNDERSTOOD THE TRIPLEX
EITHER BUT I THINK THAT HAS
BEEN VOICED AS TO BE THE RIGHT
UH SOMETHING THAT COUNCIL FEELS
THAT PEOPLE ARE MORE OK WITH AN
A PLACE AND SO I THINK THAT'S
WHY IT'S IN THERE NOT BECAUSE
ARCHITECTURALLY IT MAKES SENSE
OR OH IT JUST IS SORT OF THE
SUBURBAN IT'S IT'S KIND OF A
THING THAT COUNCIL HAS ASKED US
TO INCLUDE AND I DON'T KNOW
THAT ANY OF US ARE PARTICULARLY
EXCITED ABOUT IT BUT IT
CHANGING IT I DON'T THINK IT'S
GOING TO MAKE PEOPLE HAPPY.
>> YEAH, I DON'T THINK WE HAVE
ANY POLICY ROLE TO PLAY ON THIS
QUESTION.
I THINK IT'S ARGUED BUT I THINK
IT'S SETTLED AT THIS POINT.
IT FEELS LIKE YOU ALL ARE PRIVY
TO CONVERSATIONS I'M NOT KNOW I
JUST READ I REREAD THE
COUNCIL'S INSTRUCTION EARLIER
BEFORE THE MEETING AND IT WAS
CLEAR THAT DUPLEXES AND TRIBAL
ACCESS WOULD BE PERMITTED BY
RATE WITH OTHER LARGER TYPES
PERMITTED.
>> WE'RE VERY CLEAR WHICH IS
WHY I SENT THIS ALSO TO COUNCIL
BECAUSE I HOPE SOMEBODY WILL
READ IT ON COUNCIL AND
UNDERSTAND THE RATIONALE.
I GUESS MAYBE I WOULD JUST PUT
IN A VOICE FOR US MAKING THE
DECISION WE THINK MAKES THE
MOST SENSE ACCORDING TO WHAT
THIS BODY THINKS MAKES SENSE
FOR THE PLAN, NOT SOMETHING
WHICH IS NOT NOT MAKING A
CHANGE BECAUSE WE AREN'T
CERTAIN ABOUT WHETHER OR NOT
OUR CHANGE WOULD BE ACCEPTED AT
THE COUNCIL TABLE.
BUT IF IT DOESN'T MAKE SENSE TO
ANY OF US AND WE THINK IT'S
ARBITRARY AND ILLOGICAL, I FEEL
WE ARE SUPPORTING IT.
>> SO THESE DRAWINGS ARE SO
GREAT.
I THINK YOU SENT THEM TO US
FIRST BECAUSE THEY CLEARLY SHOW
THAT FROM THE PERSPECTIVE
OF THINGS THAT PEOPLE ARE
WORRIED ABOUT AND HEIGHT IS A
BIG ONE OF THEM.
A TRIPLEX IS WORSE BUT IS THIS
NOT THE KIND OF THING THAT
WOULD BE APPROPRIATE TO REVISIT
WHEN WE ARE THINKING ABOUT
SETBACKS AND LOT, YOU KNOW,
AREA WHATEVER COVERAGE AND
STUFF?
WOULDN'T IT BE GREAT TO SHOW
THEM AND SAY LOOK HOW
EFFICIENTLY YOU CAN GET MORE
DENSITY WITH COMPLEX THAN YOU
CAN WITH A TRIPLEX?
I THINK THE PROBLEM IS ALREADY
WRITTEN INTO THE PLAN THAT ONLY
TRIPLEX IS ALLOWED BY RIGHT.
SO IT'S A DONE DEAL ALTHOUGH
OTHER MORE OTHER LARGER WHERE
APPROPRIATE.
>> NO NO NO I KNOW BUT THIS IS
ABOUT BY RIGHT.
>> MM >>
.
OTHER COMMENT IF WE CAN WAIT
FOR A SECOND FROM
COMMISSIONERS' OK MR. LEINERT.
>> YEAH I JUST WANT TO STATE
THE OBVIOUS MY APOLOGIES PLAN
MAKING IS COMPLEX AND I LOOK I
THINK THESE ARE VERY VERY
ILLUSTRATIVE BUT I ALSO THINK
THAT THERE ARE SCENARIOS WHERE
TRIBAL AXES ACTUALLY ARE
REALIZED ON TWO STORIES RATHER
THAN THREE STORIES.
I DO THINK THAT YOU COULD
LIKELY YOUR ARCHITECT OBVIOUSLY
I'M NOT BUT I THINK VIABLE THAT
THAT COMPLEX COULD POTENTIALLY
BE SIX UNITS.
>> I THINK I YEAH, I THINK THAT
THERE'S A LOT OF SCENARIOS THAT
CAN HAPPEN IN THERE AND I DO
WANT TO JUST RECOGNIZE THAT I
AGREE WITH THE STATEMENT.
I THINK THE CITY COUNCIL HAS
BEEN PRETTY CLEAR AND THEY DO
NEED TO ADOPT THE PLAN.
THEY'VE ASKED THIS COMMITTEE TO
CONSIDER THAT AND UM THAT
POLICYMAKING IT CAN BE MESSY AT
TIMES.
IT MAY NOT BE ALWAYS BASED ON A
SCHEMATIC OR OR THE LIKE.
>> SO I GUESS I WOULD JUST PUT
A VOTE IN FOR THE COMMISSION.
I KNOW THAT THERE'S A MYRIAD
OF THOUGHTS ABOUT WHETHER
TRIPLEX IS OR FRANKLY COMPLEXES
IS ADEQUATE BUT I WOULD JUST
REMIND THAT I THINK THIS IS A
GREAT LEAP FORWARD FOR OUR PLAN
AND IT'S ALSO PUTTING US IN A
POSITION WHERE WE CAN CONSIDER
FUTURE AMENDMENTS TO THE PLAN
AS WE START REALIZING SOME
OF THESE CHANGES AT WHATEVER
SCALE IN OUR COMMUNITY.
THANK YOU MR LEARNER.
ANYONE ELSE?
FOR MY PART I THINK I WANT TO
SAY I THINK YOU ARE CORRECT
THAT THE BODY MAKES THE
RECOMMENDATION AND I THINK WE
DID I THINK WE RECOMMENDED THIS
AND GREATER AND THEN THROUGH
THE REVISION PROCESS COUNCIL
RESOLUTION SAYING WE REJECT
YOUR RECOMMENDATIONS AND WE'RE
ASKING FOR THIS.
SO I DON'T PERSONALLY I FEEL
LIKE WE DID COMMUNICATE TO THE
BODY WHAT WE THOUGHT WAS
LEGIBLE FOR THIS AND THEN
COUNCIL HEARD THAT AND THEN
COUPLED IT WITH THEIR
RESPONSIBILITIES TO THEIR
CONSTITUENTS AND THEN SENT BACK
A COMMUNICATION WHICH I THINK I
VOTED AGAINST WHEN I CAME BACK
TO THE TABLE.
>> SO I HEAR YOU AND IT ALL
MAKES SENSE AND I THINK WE ARE
CONSTRAINED BUT I DON'T THINK
WE ARE DOING IT IN THE LESS
STRUCTURE OF THE WAY THAT I
THINK YOU WERE UNPACKING LIKE
IF IT DOESN'T MAKE SENSE TO US,
I THINK WE DID SEND IT IN A WAY
THAT DID MAKE SENSE TO US AND
THEN WE GOT FEEDBACK THAT SAID
WE HEAR YOU.
WE REJECT THAT.
THIS IS WHAT WE'RE ASKING FOR.
>> AND THEN WE HAD A ROBUST
DEBATE BECAUSE YOU PRESENTED
THIS PRESENTATION AT ONE OF OUR
DEBATES OR CONVERSATIONS AROUND
THE PLAN AND IT WASN'T ADOPTED
AT THE TABLE AT THAT TIME.
BUT I AM HAPPY TO ENTERTAIN A
MOTION TO RECONSIDER IT RIGHT
NOW.
>> NO, I DON'T THINK THERE'S
SUPPORT FOR WE DON'T HAVE TO DO
A MOTION.
>> I THINK I YEAH.
AND I KNOW THAT I ALREADY
PRESENTED IT TO YOU ALL AND
IT'S REALLY JUST BACK HERE
BECAUSE I I SENT IT TO COUNCIL
AND PLANNING.
THANKS.
ANY OTHER COMMENTS.
I'LL GO AHEAD COMMISSIONER.
WE SURE JUST POINT
OF CLARIFICATION IN PAGE ONE
HUNDRED THIRTEEN IT DOES SAY DO
YOU PREFER BUILDING FORM I'M ON
POINT NUMBER TWO DUPLEXES AND
TRY PRICE PLEXUS PERMITTED AS
PRIMARY USERS WITH REFORM TO
DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS TO
ACCOMMODATE THEM.
>> SO WHEN WE TALK ABOUT
PRIMARY USES SOME REASON I
THOUGHT I HAD SAID BY RIGHT BUT
REGARDLESS WOULD THAT MEAN THAT
AS A PRIMARY USE LIKE QUAD
BIKES COULDN'T BE CONSIDERED AS
A SPECIAL EXCEPTION?
USE OR JUST FOR CLARIFICATION
PURPOSES?
>> YEAH, THE WAY I INTERPRET
THE PLAN IS PRIMARY IS CAN
SPEAK FOR PERMITTED.
YEAH.
SO I THINK THAT THE THE MESSAGE
I THINK THAT THIS BODY
ORIGINALLY FORWARDED AS
DISCUSSED TO THE COUNCIL BOTH
AT THE ORIGINAL AND AND THEN IT
MODIFIED WAS AN INTENTION THAT
TRIED IS AT A MINIMUM TO BE
EASY TO ATTAIN.
SO BY PRIMARY USES THAT I
INTERPRET THAT PLAN TO BE
STAYING SAYING THAT THOSE
SHOULD BE PERMITTED USES THEY
DON'T REQUIRE A DISCRETIONARY
LEVEL OF APPROVAL BUT LIKE
EVERYTHING ELSE IT HAS TO MEET
THE AREA HIGH PLACEMENT
STANDARDS THAT YOU SUBSEQUENTLY
ESTABLISHED FOR HOW THAT IS
MADE.
BUT I WOULDN'T HAVE ANY AGENCY
TO SAY THAT NO FOR THAT
PROPERTY YOU CAN'T DO A TRIPLE
X IF YOU MEET THE STANDARDS
IT'S A PERMITTED USE JUST LIKE
A DUPLEX OR A SINGLE FAMILY
TODAY.
GOTCHA.
SO AGAIN, I THINK THE
DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS THAT
YOU'VE PUT FORTH, COMMISSIONER
ABRAN MAKES SENSE TO ME THAT
BEING SAID AGAIN THE STRUCTURE
BY WHICH COUNCIL IS ENGAGES AND
INSTRUCTED US I THINK IS ALSO
CLEAR AS WELL.
BUT I ALSO WANT TO JUST POINT
OUT THE LANGUAGE SAYS DUPLEXES
TRIPLEX IS PERMITTED AS PRIMARY
USES ULTIMATELY WHAT THE UDC
SAYS WILL GOVERN RIGHT.
SO WE'LL HAVE TO GO THROUGH
THAT KIND OF LIKE WRANGLING
EXERCISE SO I DON'T SEE THIS AS
KIND.
SO I'M NOT SURE THAT THIS IS
THE CHANGE.
I WOULDN'T NECESSARILY WANT TO
JUST CLARIFY SOME OF THE
LANGUAGE ON 113.
>> THANK YOU.
CAN I ASK A QUESTION?
IS THAT AN APPROPRIATE USE
OF THE TERM USE?
ISN'T IT A RESIDENTIAL USE?
WELL, WE CURRENTLY IN OUR
CURRENT CODE WE HAVE A
MULTITUDE OF DIFFERENT
RESIDENTIAL USES DEFINE A
SINGLE FAMILY AS A DISTINCT USE
FROM A DUPLEX BUT AS A DISTINCT
USER MULTIFAMILY OK, OK.
ALL RIGHT.
>> ANY OTHER COMMISSIONERS ONTO
THE EDITS ON SINGULAR SEVENTY
THREE THIS IS MINE SPEAKING
ARBITRARY SO THIS WAS IN AN
ECONOMY AN OPPORTUNITY
CHAPTERED UM ABOUT THE STARTUPS
AND SPACE FOR THEM AND I JUST
FEEL LIKE ORDER TO GO UP THERE
.
SO THESE COMPANIES ARE A
COMBINATION BIOPHARMA BED
DEVICES, PHYSICAL NON
LIFESCIENCE PRODUCTS AND
DIGITAL WHICH WILL NEED A
COMBINATION FACILITIES AS THEY
SCALE AND WILL LIKELY NEED TO
BE NEAR NEAR CAMPUS THIS IS
DIGITAL FROM WHEN WE HAD THE
PLYMOUTH INNOVATION ZONE.
I THINK THAT WE HAD A LONG TIME
AGO.
SO I WOULD LIKE TO JUST CUT THE
LAST PART OF THAT BECAUSE I
THINK REALLY THEY COULD LOCATE
ANYWHERE.
I DON'T KNOW WHY THEY WOULD
UNLESS THERE'S SOME RATIONALE
BUT I'M NOT THINKING OF WHY
THEY WOULD LIKELY TO BE NEAR
NORTH CAMPUS.
>> DO WE HAVE ANY COMMENTS
HERE?
I THINK THAT PROBABLY IS IN
RELATION TO THE UNIVERSITIES.
TWENTY THIRTY PLAN OR TWENTY
WHATEVER YOUR PLAN BUT I AGREE
WITH YOU LIKE I DON'T KNOW THAT
WE NEED TO LIMIT IT.
>> YEAH YEAH.
I MEAN OK I SUPPORT IT.
>> I SUPPORT IT OR ELSE IT'S OK
GREAT MICHELLE I THINK WE HAVE
SUPPORT THERE.
>> IS IT POSSIBLE FOR EITHER
YOU OR MR LEINERT TO HAVE THE
PLAN UP AS WE ARE LOOKING AT
THE PAGES NOT THE EDITS BUT THE
ACTUAL PLAN SO THAT I CAN BE
SEEN IN CONTEXT ESPECIALLY FOR
THOSE WHO MIGHT BE SITTING HERE
WONDERING WHAT WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT?
YEAH, YEAH OK SO AND WHILE THEY
DO THAT DOES THE PERSON WHO
SUGGESTED THE EDIT ON ONE LEVIN
WANT TO INTRODUCE IT?
>> YES, THANK YOU COMMISSIONER
.
YES.
SO THIS EDIT PERTAINS TO A
TEENY DOT OF YELLOW ON PLYMOUTH
ROAD AND UM THAT'S BOUNDED BY
HUB ON EITHER SIDE AND YOU CAN
SEE SO THERE'S THERE'S A
THERE'S A THERE'S AN AERIAL
PHOTO OF IT IN THE COMMENT BUT
NOT A PICTURE OF THE OF WHERE
IT IS ON THE PFLUM.
I DO SUGGEST THIS CHANGE BUT I
ALSO RAISED THIS CHANGE AS AN
OPPORTUNITY THAT PERHAPS
PERHAPS COMMISSIONER OR CHAIR
WHICH YOU'VE ALREADY ADDRESSED
THIS PROBLEM BUT WE DID RECEIVE
A LOT OF COMMENTS ABOUT THE
WHAT HAPPENS WHERE TRANSITION A
BUS HUB AND DOES HUB GRADUALLY
JUST GET EATEN AWAY BECAUSE
EVERYTHING THAT'S I'M SORRY
DOES TRANSITION GET EATEN AWAY
BECAUSE EVERYTHING THAT'S
ADJACENT TO HUB MAKES IT
POSSIBLE TO MAKE MORE OF TO
EXTEND HUB FURTHER INTO
TRANSITION?
>> THIS IS EXTREMELY I'M
FINDING IT DIFFICULT TO EXPRESS
WHAT I MEAN BUT PEOPLE HAVE ONE
I THINK ONE PERSON
CHARACTERIZED IT AS MISSION
CREEP INTO TRANSITION AND I
THINK THIS IS A PROBLEM WITH
THE TRANSITION DISTRICT BECAUSE
EVEN AS IT'S DESCRIBED IN THE
PLAN IT ON EITHER SIDE OF IT IN
THAT LITTLE LINEAR MAP THAT WE
HAVE WHERE TRANSITION IS
ACTUALLY SHOWN TO LIE BETWEEN
RESIDENTIAL AND HUB ON BOTH
SIDES OF THAT DRAWING IT SAYS
THIS CAN GO AS HIGH HUB
DEPENDING ON WHERE IT IS.
>> I MEAN SO WE'VE TRANSITIONED
IS THE GRAB BAG CATEGORY.
>> WE'VE TALKED ABOUT THIS
BEFORE.
>> UM, I KNOW THAT YOU COULD
ARGUE THAT WELL WE SHOULD JUST
HUB THEM BECAUSE THEY'RE
BETWEEN TWO HUBS.
>> I KNOW HUB ISN'T A VERB BUT
BUT THEY'RE RESIDENTIAL NOW AND
IT IT IS YOU KNOW
IT DEFINITELY
DOESN'T MAKE PEOPLE HAPPY TO
FEEL THAT THERE'S GOING TO BE A
HUGE JUMP IN DENSITY IN THEIR
NEIGHBORHOOD AND THEN THIS IS
JUST KIND OF ONE OF THOSE
PECULIAR LITTLE BITS OF ANN
ARBOR, YOU KNOW THAT YOU ALSO
CAN FIND ALONG WASHTENAW WHERE
THERE'S A SERVICE ROAD THAT
SEPARATES A LITTLE RESIDENTIAL
BIT FROM THE MAJOR TRANSIT ROAD
AND THAT'S WHAT'S HAPPENING
HERE.
>> SO I I AM JUST REQUESTING
THAT THIS LITTLE PIECE BE THAT
IT REMAIN RESIDENTIAL EVEN
THOUGH IT'S AWKWARDLY
POSITIONED OK BUT I HAVE A
SMALL DISCUSSION ABOUT THIS FAR
AWAY BUT I THINK IT SHOULD STAY
TRANSITION OR BE BUT THE WHOLE
NORTH SIDE OF PLYMOUTH ROAD IS
HAAB OR TRANSITION ALL THE WAY
DOWN TO WHAT LOOKS LIKE KIND
OF A TRAILER AREA AND I, I JUST
DON'T SEE A BASIS TO NOT
RECOMMEND A HIGHER DENSITY USE
THEIR LONG TERM UNDERSTANDING
OF THE BUILT ENVIRONMENT IS
GOING TO REMAIN THAT UM I WORRY
THAT I I'M NOT SURE THAT THE
THAT THE LOGIC OF I THINK HOW
WE DID THIS I DON'T UNDERSTAND
AN ARGUMENT FOR DEVIATING FROM
THAT FOR THIS LITTLE POCKET
WHEN AGAIN IT'S SORT
OF UNINTERRUPTED HUB TRANSITION
FOR WHAT LOOKS LIKE A MILE MILE
AND A HALF UM THAT JUST DOESN'T
FEEL LIKE THE RIGHT PLANNING
RESULT.
>> THANK YOU COMMISSIONER ADAMS
.
I THINK THIS LEADS ME TO ASK A
LARGER QUESTION ABOUT THE LAND
USE MAP AND THE COMMENTS
EARLIER ABOUT A DISPERSION OR A
PARCEL SPECIFIC VERSION VERSUS
THE WB ONE THAT WE HAVE NOW AND
WHAT THE THOUGHTS ARE THERE
FROM PLANNING STUFF ABOUT WHEN
THIS BECOMES A WHAT WHAT IS
THAT PROCESS LIKE IF I LOOK AT
THE TWO THOUSAND NINE LAND USE
MAP, IT'S PERSONAL.
IT'S DELINEATED BY PARCEL BUT
THE RECOMMENDED THEY DO SINCE
WELL TO BE CLEAR WE CAN DO
EITHER BUT I APPROACH THIS AND
THAT'S THE COMMISSION HAS
APPROACHED IT BY NOT FOCUSING
ON A PARCEL BASED FUTURE LAND
USE MAP BECAUSE OF A LOT
OF CONVERSATIONS ABOUT TRYING
TO COMMUNICATE CHARACTER
OF CORRIDORS AND AREAS SHORT
OF ALWAYS KNOWING EXACTLY HOW
THE SPECIFIC ASPECTS OF THOSE
MIGHT BE REALIZED.
ARE THEY GOING TO BE REALIZED
ON A FRONTAGE ONLY BASIS?
ON A BLOCK BY BLOCK BASIS AND
ARE THEY GOING TO BE REALIZED
THE PLANS TYPICALLY BUILT IN
ON A BLOCK BY BLOCK BASIS AND
FLEXIBILITY FOR THE CITY TO
THE PLANS TYPICALLY BUILT IN
INTERPRET FLEXIBILITY IN THOSE
FLEXIBILITY FOR THE CITY TO
BOUNDARIES AND THAT FLEXIBILITY
INTERPRET FLEXIBILITY IN THOSE
CAN BE BUILT IN WHETHER IT'S A
BOUNDARIES AND THAT FLEXIBILITY
PARCEL BASED OR NOT.
CAN BE BUILT IN WHETHER IT'S A
BUT NOT HAVING IT BE PARCEL
PARCEL BASED OR NOT.
BASED I THINK MORE EFFECTIVELY
BUT NOT HAVING IT BE PARCEL
COMMUNICATES THAT OTHERWISE A
BASED I THINK MORE EFFECTIVELY
HARD AND FAST LINE ON THE MAP
COMMUNICATES THAT OTHERWISE A
IS NOT ABSOLUTE.
HARD AND FAST LINE ON THE MAP
>> WOULD IT BE POSSIBLE TO
IS NOT ABSOLUTE.
WRITE A SENTENCE OR TWO AT THE
>> WOULD IT BE POSSIBLE TO
BOTTOM OF THIS MAP THAT
WRITE A SENTENCE OR TWO AT THE
EXPLAINS THAT LOGIC?
BOTTOM OF THIS MAP THAT
I LIKE IT.
EXPLAINS THAT LOGIC?
THE IDEA IS THAT THE GRAPHIC
I LIKE IT.
SENSIBILITY INDICATES AN
THE IDEA IS THAT THE GRAPHIC
APPROACH TO FLEXIBILITY,
SENSIBILITY INDICATES AN
DISCERNMENT, DISCRETION,
APPROACH TO FLEXIBILITY,
ADAPTABILITY, RESILIENCE OR
DISCERNMENT, DISCRETION,
SOMETHING.
ADAPTABILITY, RESILIENCE OR
>> I THINK THAT THAT WOULD BE
SOMETHING.
IMPORTANT TO COMMUNICATE AS
>> I THINK THAT THAT WOULD BE
OPPOSED TO IT BEING
IMPORTANT TO COMMUNICATE AS
MISPERCEIVES AS LAZINESS, LACK
OPPOSED TO IT BEING
OF COMMITMENT, WISHY WASHY.
MISPERCEIVES AS LAZINESS, LACK
>> YES, WE'VE GOT THAT ON ONE
OF COMMITMENT, WISHY WASHY.
THIRTY FIVE.
>> YES, WE'VE GOT THAT ON ONE
I DON'T KNOW IF WE WANT TO MOVE
THIRTY FIVE.
IT UP BUT IT'S THERE WHERE IT
I DON'T KNOW IF WE WANT TO MOVE
SAYS UM THIS IS LIKE ZONING
IT UP BUT IT'S THERE WHERE IT
WHICH IS PARCEL BY PARCEL THIS
SAYS UM THIS IS LIKE ZONING
IS BROADER MORE FLEXIBLE UM THE
WHICH IS PARCEL BY PARCEL THIS
MAP IS DESIGNED WITH
IS BROADER MORE FLEXIBLE UM THE
INTENTIONAL FLEXIBILITY
MAP IS DESIGNED WITH
ALLOWING CERTAIN BOUNDARIES TO
INTENTIONAL FLEXIBILITY
BE FLUID RATHER THAN
ALLOWING CERTAIN BOUNDARIES TO
PRESCRIPTIVE.
BE FLUID RATHER THAN
>> MAYBE WE JUST COPY PASTE IT
PRESCRIPTIVE.
AND ALSO WITH THE MAP.
>> MAYBE WE JUST COPY PASTE IT
>> SO I'M TRACKING TWO THINGS.
AND ALSO WITH THE MAP.
ONE, COMMISSIONER STARTED BY
>> SO I'M TRACKING TWO THINGS.
ASKING FOR THE TRANSITION
ONE, COMMISSIONER STARTED BY
INTERRUPTION BETWEEN HUB ON
ASKING FOR THE TRANSITION
PLIMOTH TO BE RE RE CATEGORIZED
INTERRUPTION BETWEEN HUB ON
AS RESIDENTIAL AND THEN YOUR
PLIMOTH TO BE RE RE CATEGORIZED
COMMENT THEN SCALED BACK OUT
AS RESIDENTIAL AND THEN YOUR
FROM THE ENTIRE THAT SECTION TO
COMMENT THEN SCALED BACK OUT
THE WHOLE MAP TO TRY TO ADDRESS
FROM THE ENTIRE THAT SECTION TO
WHAT YOU HAVE ARTICULATED.
THE WHOLE MAP TO TRY TO ADDRESS
IT LOOKS LIKE SO I WANT TO
WHAT YOU HAVE ARTICULATED.
TRACK THE SECOND THING FIRST
IT LOOKS LIKE SO I WANT TO
AND THEN I'LL GO BACK TO
TRACK THE SECOND THING FIRST
COMMISSIONER DISH SO IT LOOKS
AND THEN I'LL GO BACK TO
LIKE THERE IS SUPPORT AT THE
COMMISSIONER DISH SO IT LOOKS
TABLE TO TAKE THE CENTER FROM
LIKE THERE IS SUPPORT AT THE
LEAVE IT ON PAGE ONE THIRTY ONE
TABLE TO TAKE THE CENTER FROM
BUT ADD IT TO PAGE 111.
LEAVE IT ON PAGE ONE THIRTY ONE
IS THERE SUPPORT FOR THAT.
BUT ADD IT TO PAGE 111.
YES, YES CONFESSIONALLY OK ONE
IS THERE SUPPORT FOR THAT.
THIRTY ONE ONE THIRTY FIVE ONE
YES, YES CONFESSIONALLY OK ONE
THIRTY FIVE IT'S THE FUTURE
THIRTY ONE ONE THIRTY FIVE ONE
LAND MAP REPRESENTS THE VALUES
THIRTY FIVE IT'S THE FUTURE
AND PHYSICAL FORM DONE.
LAND MAP REPRESENTS THE VALUES
>> OK SO NOW CAN WE COME BACK
AND PHYSICAL FORM DONE.
TO COMMISSIONER DELICIOUS
>> OK SO NOW CAN WE COME BACK
ORIGINAL REQUEST WHICH WAS TO
TO COMMISSIONER DELICIOUS
TAKE THE LITTLE TINY SECTION ON
ORIGINAL REQUEST WHICH WAS TO
PLIMOTH BETWEEN THE TWO HUBS
TAKE THE LITTLE TINY SECTION ON
WHICH IS CURRENTLY LABELED
PLIMOTH BETWEEN THE TWO HUBS
TRANSITION AND TO RECATEGORIZE
WHICH IS CURRENTLY LABELED
AS RESIDENTIAL COMMISSIONER
TRANSITION AND TO RECATEGORIZE
ADAMS SAID NO TO SUMMARIZE HIS
AS RESIDENTIAL COMMISSIONER
INITIAL COMMENT.
ADAMS SAID NO TO SUMMARIZE HIS
>> I BELIEVE THAT IS AND SO CAN
INITIAL COMMENT.
WE HEAR FROM OTHER
>> I BELIEVE THAT IS AND SO CAN
COMMISSIONERS TO GIVE STAFF
WE HEAR FROM OTHER
SOME GUIDANCE.
COMMISSIONERS TO GIVE STAFF
START WITH COMMISSIONER LEE.
SOME GUIDANCE.
>> YEAH, I WAS JUST THINKING
START WITH COMMISSIONER LEE.
ABOUT WHERE ELSE IN THE CITY
>> YEAH, I WAS JUST THINKING
HAS IS KIND OF A SERVICE DRIVE.
ABOUT WHERE ELSE IN THE CITY
SO I THINK THERE'S ONE NEAR
HAS IS KIND OF A SERVICE DRIVE.
ACTUALLY GEORGE TOWN ON THE
SO I THINK THERE'S ONE NEAR
SOUTHERN SIDE KIND OF ON
ACTUALLY GEORGE TOWN ON THE
EISENHAUER AND GEORGETOWN AREA.
SOUTHERN SIDE KIND OF ON
>> I ALSO THINK THERE'S ANOTHER
EISENHAUER AND GEORGETOWN AREA.
ONE ON SILCA WHERE THERE'S KIND
>> I ALSO THINK THERE'S ANOTHER
OF A SERVICE DRIVE AND WHEN I
ONE ON SILCA WHERE THERE'S KIND
ACTUALLY LOOKED AT BOTH
OF A SERVICE DRIVE AND WHEN I
OF THOSE ON FOR EXAMPLE LIKE ON
ACTUALLY LOOKED AT BOTH
THE EISENHOWER ONE, IT'S
OF THOSE ON FOR EXAMPLE LIKE ON
ACTUALLY TRANSITION AND THEN ON
THE EISENHOWER ONE, IT'S
CYO CHURCH LOOKS LIKE IT'S KIND
ACTUALLY TRANSITION AND THEN ON
OF RESIDENTIAL TO ME.
CYO CHURCH LOOKS LIKE IT'S KIND
THERE'S THE CONTEXT OF THE
OF RESIDENTIAL TO ME.
ZONING ACTUALLY DICTATES IT
THERE'S THE CONTEXT OF THE
MORE SO THAN THE ACTUAL
ZONING ACTUALLY DICTATES IT
PHYSICAL FORM OF THE SERVICE
MORE SO THAN THE ACTUAL
DRIVE ITSELF AS I'M LOOKING AT
PHYSICAL FORM OF THE SERVICE
JUST THE WAY THAT THESE TWO AND
DRIVE ITSELF AS I'M LOOKING AT
GRANULARITY TO ME IS MORE SO
JUST THE WAY THAT THESE TWO AND
ABOUT LIKE WHAT'S THE
GRANULARITY TO ME IS MORE SO
CONTINUITY OF ZONES IN THIS
ABOUT LIKE WHAT'S THE
PARTICULAR INSTANCE WHILE I
CONTINUITY OF ZONES IN THIS
UNDERSTAND KIND OF WHAT'S
PARTICULAR INSTANCE WHILE I
PROFFERED FROM THIS
UNDERSTAND KIND OF WHAT'S
NEIGHBORHOOD, I WOULD ACTUALLY
PROFFERED FROM THIS
TEND TO THINK THAT BECAUSE IT'S
NEIGHBORHOOD, I WOULD ACTUALLY
ACROSS THE STREET FROM THE U
TEND TO THINK THAT BECAUSE IT'S
OF M RESEARCH CENTER AND
ACROSS THE STREET FROM THE U
BOUNDED BY HUB EVEN WITH THE
OF M RESEARCH CENTER AND
CONCEPT THAT SERVICE DRIVE THAT
BOUNDED BY HUB EVEN WITH THE
IT STANDS MORE RATIONALE BASED
CONCEPT THAT SERVICE DRIVE THAT
ON HIS CONTACTS IT'S STILL BE
IT STANDS MORE RATIONALE BASED
TRANSITION SOME KIND OF ON THE
ON HIS CONTACTS IT'S STILL BE
COMMISSIONER ADAMS SO YOU'RE NO
TRANSITION SOME KIND OF ON THE
ALL RIGHT NOW BUT IT DOES
COMMISSIONER ADAMS SO YOU'RE NO
DEPEND ON HOW YOU LOOK AT IT
ALL RIGHT NOW BUT IT DOES
BECAUSE IT IS THE END OF A
DEPEND ON HOW YOU LOOK AT IT
STRIP OF RESIDENTIAL UM AND
BECAUSE IT IS THE END OF A
THERE IS ANOTHER SERVICE DRIVE
STRIP OF RESIDENTIAL UM AND
DRIVE ON NEXEN ROAD JUST TO THE
THERE IS ANOTHER SERVICE DRIVE
UM JUST TO THE WEST AND NORTH
DRIVE ON NEXEN ROAD JUST TO THE
OF THIS ONE THAT IS ALSO
UM JUST TO THE WEST AND NORTH
RESIDENTIAL.
OF THIS ONE THAT IS ALSO
AND SO FROM WHAT IT LOOKS LIKE
RESIDENTIAL.
IF YOU'RE WALKING THERE'S TWO
AND SO FROM WHAT IT LOOKS LIKE
THINGS PRETTY CLOSE TO EACH
IF YOU'RE WALKING THERE'S TWO
OTHER ONE WHICH IS TRANSITION
THINGS PRETTY CLOSE TO EACH
AND THE OTHER WHICH IS
OTHER ONE WHICH IS TRANSITION
RESIDENTIAL AND YOU'RE WALKING
AND THE OTHER WHICH IS
ALONG, YOU KNOW, FROM THE IF
RESIDENTIAL AND YOU'RE WALKING
YOU'RE WALKING SOUTH FROM THE
ALONG, YOU KNOW, FROM THE IF
NORTH YOU'RE WALKING IN
YOU'RE WALKING SOUTH FROM THE
RESIDENTIAL AND YOU RUN INTO A
NORTH YOU'RE WALKING IN
LITTLE STRIP OF TRANSITION
RESIDENTIAL AND YOU RUN INTO A
BETWEEN TWO HUBS.
LITTLE STRIP OF TRANSITION
SO IT'S REALLY IT'S KIND OF IF
BETWEEN TWO HUBS.
YOU LOOK AT IT FROM MOVING
SO IT'S REALLY IT'S KIND OF IF
NORTH SOUTH WIDER THAN
YOU LOOK AT IT FROM MOVING
RESIDENTIAL JUST CONTINUE AND
NORTH SOUTH WIDER THAN
IF YOU LOOK AT IT MOVING ALONG
RESIDENTIAL JUST CONTINUE AND
PLYMOUTH ROAD WHICH YOU'RE NOT
IF YOU LOOK AT IT MOVING ALONG
ACTUALLY FOR LONG BECAUSE
PLYMOUTH ROAD WHICH YOU'RE NOT
THERE'S THIS SERVICE DRIVE YOU
ACTUALLY FOR LONG BECAUSE
FEEL LIKE IT SHOULD BE UP.
THERE'S THIS SERVICE DRIVE YOU
SO I THINK THAT THIS IS
FEEL LIKE IT SHOULD BE UP.
COMPLICATED.
SO I THINK THAT THIS IS
I MEAN I JUST THINK THIS IS A
COMPLICATED.
VERY WEIRD LITTLE PIECE THAT
I MEAN I JUST THINK THIS IS A
HAS 15 HOMES.
VERY WEIRD LITTLE PIECE THAT
THERE WILL BE FIFTEEN UNHAPPY
HAS 15 HOMES.
PEOPLE AND AND AND WILL FEEL
THERE WILL BE FIFTEEN UNHAPPY
INCONSISTENT WITH THE NIXON
PEOPLE AND AND AND WILL FEEL
PEACE.
INCONSISTENT WITH THE NIXON
>> THANK YOU.
PEACE.
I CAN ASSURE HAMMERSCHMIDT.
>> THANK YOU.
SO I THINK THIS IS THE ANGST
I CAN ASSURE HAMMERSCHMIDT.
THAT WE'RE HEARING FROM A LOT
SO I THINK THIS IS THE ANGST
OF PEOPLE WHEN THEY LOOK AT
THAT WE'RE HEARING FROM A LOT
THIS MAP AND THEY SEE SOMETHING
OF PEOPLE WHEN THEY LOOK AT
DIFFERENT THAN WHAT THEIR
THIS MAP AND THEY SEE SOMETHING
PROPERTY IS OWNED TODAY.
DIFFERENT THAN WHAT THEIR
BUT WHEN I THINK ABOUT PLYMOUTH
PROPERTY IS OWNED TODAY.
IS ONE OF THE MAJOR CORRIDORS
BUT WHEN I THINK ABOUT PLYMOUTH
AND WHEN I THINK ABOUT THE
IS ONE OF THE MAJOR CORRIDORS
FUTURE OF PLYMOUTH ROAD TWENTY
AND WHEN I THINK ABOUT THE
FIVE FIFTY YEARS IN THE FUTURE
FUTURE OF PLYMOUTH ROAD TWENTY
WHILE IT EXISTS TODAY IT'S LIKE
FIVE FIFTY YEARS IN THE FUTURE
FIFTEEN SINGLE FAMILY HOMES.
WHILE IT EXISTS TODAY IT'S LIKE
>> I'M HOPEFUL IN THE FUTURE
FIFTEEN SINGLE FAMILY HOMES.
IT'LL BE A MORE BUILT UP
>> I'M HOPEFUL IN THE FUTURE
CORRIDOR AND YOU KNOW THAT
IT'LL BE A MORE BUILT UP
UNFORTUNATELY OR FORTUNATELY
CORRIDOR AND YOU KNOW THAT
MEANS THAT THOSE HOMES WOULD
UNFORTUNATELY OR FORTUNATELY
NEED BE REDEVELOPED.
MEANS THAT THOSE HOMES WOULD
>> SO I WOULD I WOULD ALMOST
NEED BE REDEVELOPED.
SAY SHOULD BE HUB BUT I
>> SO I WOULD I WOULD ALMOST
CERTAINLY WOULD PREFER TO LEAVE
SAY SHOULD BE HUB BUT I
IT AS TRANSITION RATHER AND
CERTAINLY WOULD PREFER TO LEAVE
TOWNS ON IT.
IT AS TRANSITION RATHER AND
>> SO I GUESS I'M ALSO SAYING
TOWNS ON IT.
NO, WE ARE WE CAN TAKE A VOTE
>> SO I GUESS I'M ALSO SAYING
TO IF UM BUT LET'S HEAR THE
NO, WE ARE WE CAN TAKE A VOTE
COMMENTS FROM NORTON WHETHER IT
TO IF UM BUT LET'S HEAR THE
BE ABRAM'S YOU DON'T HAVE TO
COMMENTS FROM NORTON WHETHER IT
MAKE ONE.
BE ABRAM'S YOU DON'T HAVE TO
I'M JUST ASKING SO THAT WE KNOW
MAKE ONE.
WHERE YOU ARE.
I'M JUST ASKING SO THAT WE KNOW
>> I SUPPORT LEAVING A
WHERE YOU ARE.
TRANSITION.
>> I SUPPORT LEAVING A
OK, YEAH I MEAN I THINK THIS I
TRANSITION.
AGREE IT'S HARD.
OK, YEAH I MEAN I THINK THIS I
I GREW UP IN THIS AREA AND LIKE
AGREE IT'S HARD.
THIS SEEMS LIKE A NEIGHBORHOOD
I GREW UP IN THIS AREA AND LIKE
TO ME AND THOSE HOUSES ARE A
THIS SEEMS LIKE A NEIGHBORHOOD
NEIGHBORHOOD AND IT REFERS BACK
TO ME AND THOSE HOUSES ARE A
TO THE NEIGHBORHOOD BEHIND IT
NEIGHBORHOOD AND IT REFERS BACK
AND THERE WASN'T ALL THE STUFF
TO THE NEIGHBORHOOD BEHIND IT
IN FRONT OF IT.
AND THERE WASN'T ALL THE STUFF
IT WAS THE NEIGHBORHOOD AND IT
IN FRONT OF IT.
WAS ALL GOING TO BE
IT WAS THE NEIGHBORHOOD AND IT
NEIGHBORHOOD HOUSES.
WAS ALL GOING TO BE
>> AND SO IT'S A LITTLE BUT
NEIGHBORHOOD HOUSES.
THAT IS SORT OF NOT THE WAY YOU
>> AND SO IT'S A LITTLE BUT
KNOW NOW IT'S A SMALL PIECE AND
THAT IS SORT OF NOT THE WAY YOU
AND I I COULD SEE GOING EITHER
KNOW NOW IT'S A SMALL PIECE AND
WAY.
AND I I COULD SEE GOING EITHER
>> COMMISSIONER NORDON, I I
WAY.
UNDERSTAND THE MOTIVATION
>> COMMISSIONER NORDON, I I
BEHIND THE PROPOSAL BUT I THINK
UNDERSTAND THE MOTIVATION
THIS PIECE IS DISTINGUISHABLE
FROM THE OTHER ON NIXON ROAD
BECAUSE IT'S ALONG A MAJOR
CORRIDOR THAT'S GOING TO BE
MOSTLY SO I'M INCLINED TO NOT
SUPPORT THE CHANGE.
OK, COMMISSIONER, WOULD YOU
LIKE TO PROPOSE A MOTION?
>> NO.
OK, THERE'S NO SUPPORT THAT
TAKES US TO ONE TWELVE ONE
THIRTEEN THAT'S ME.
>> UM SO THIS IS THE TWO PAGE
CHART LAYING OUT THE CATEGORIES
AND THE DIFFERENT FEATURES AND
I WOULD LIKE TO PROPOSE THAT
FOR TRANSITION UNDER PREFERRED
BUILDING FORM WE DELETE THE
TEXT IN PARENTHESES OF THE
FIRST BULLET WHICH SAYS THE
HIGH RISE OF ADJACENT TO HUB.
SO IT WOULD JUST SAY LOW TO
HIGH RISE BUILDINGS AND ALSO
FOR BULLET TO WE DELETE WHERE
IT SAYS TALLER AND MORE INTENSE
NEAR HUB THIS FEELS LIKE A
DEGREE OF SPECIFICITY THAT
ISN'T HELPFUL.
IT'S ACTUALLY KIND OF CONFUSING
AND NOT NECESSARY.
ALL RIGHT.
IS THERE SUPPORT I SUPPORT AND
I ACTUALLY MADE A SIMILAR
REQUEST TO CHANGE JUST I WANT
TO BE CLEAR THAT WE TAPERT
BASED ON PROXIMITY TO
RESIDENTIAL LIKE THAT FEELS
LIKE THE TAPERING MECHANISM,
THE HUB LANGUAGE AND THERE WAS
A LITTLE CONFUSING SO LET ME
ASK IT DIFFERENTLY.
IS THERE ANY OPPOSITION
ALL
RIGHT.
>> YOU OK, COMMISSIONER DISH OH
OK.
ALL RIGHT.
I KNOW YOU'RE FINE.
I THAT THAT I WANTED TO MAKE
SURE IF YOU WERE LOOKING FOR IT
YOU HAD ENOUGH TIME.
ALL RIGHT.
LET'S GO ON TO 113.
THERE'S SUPPORT TO ADOPT THAT
CHANGE.
>> I THINK THE NEXT ONE'S ME
BUT DOES ANYONE ELSE THINK IT'S
THEM.
>> IT WAS ME I THINK I HAD A
VERY SIMILAR THING BUT YOU GO
FURTHER THERE WERE A COUPLE
THAT OVERLAPPED AND I JUST PUT
ONE AND IF THEY WERE THE SAME I
THINK IN THE LET ME GO FIND MY
TABLE HERE.
>> WHERE'S MY TABLE ALONE.
YOU SHOULD BE RIGHT THERE.
>> UH, ZONING.
YEAH.
SO UM HERE HERE ON LIKE HOW WE
TREAT THE OTHER CATEGORIES WE
SAY WE'RE GOING TO MAN THESE
LEGACY DISTRICTS TO TO EXECUTE
AND I JUST DON'T THINK WE NEED
TO BE THAT THAT SPECIFIC AND I
ALSO I'M NOT SURE THAT THIS IS
ALL THE WAY ON THE RIGHT THIRD
ROW.
IT'S AS AMENDED ONE V TWO AND
ONE THE THE PRESIDENTIAL
TRANSITION WILL CONTEMPLATE THE
POTENTIAL FOR NEW DISTRICTS AND
I THINK THAT'S POSSIBLE HERE.
SO I THINK WE JUST NEED TO
TREAT IT THE SAME WAY IT'S
POSSIBLE IT'LL BE NEW.
IT'LL IT'S POSSIBLE WE'LL JUST
AMEND THOSE THREE.
>> BUT I DON'T KNOW THE ANSWER
TO THAT FROM WHERE I SIT TODAY
.
SO YOUR PROPOSAL IS TO REMOVE
IT TO HANDLE IT LIKE WE DO THE
OTHER TWO CATEGORIES AND SAY IT
WILL EITHER BE NEW DISTRICTS OR
AMENDMENTS TO ONE D AND NOT THE
SPECIFICITY OF D1 D2 ONE.
>> I JUST WANT TO STAY AGNOSTIC
ON EXECUTION.
OK, I SUBMITTED ALMOST THE SAME
EXACT COMMENT AND THE LANGUAGE
THAT I PROPOSED WAS QUOTE NEW
HUB DISTRICT PARENTHESES CLOSE
PARENTHESES THAT REFER TO
EXISTING PARAMETERS IN D1 TO
AND ONE DON'T WE REPEAT THAT
NEW HUB DISTRICT THAT REFERS TO
EXISTING PARAMETERS.
DO YOU WANT D2 AND DC ONE?
I WAS JUST FOLLOWING THE MODEL
OF THE TWO ABOVE.
OK, ALL RIGHT.
BECAUSE I WAS GOING TO GO AFTER
THAT S BECAUSE YOU KNOW I JUST
WANT IT FOR THE NEXT YEAR I
BROUGHT IT IN.
>> I HAVE TO WAIT TO BE CLEAR
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT THE COLUMN
THAT ZONING YES.
CURRENTLY DOES AMEND DO YOU
WANT ME TO AND TO SUGGEST
REPLACING IT WITH NEW NEW HUB
DISTRICTS THAT ARE TO EXISTING
PARAMETERS IN D ONE D TO IN DC
ONE OK BUT THAT THE WAY YOU'RE
SAYING THAT DOES NOT SEEM TO ME
TO MIMIC HOW THEY ARE DISCUSSED
IN THE OTHERS UNDER ZONING THEY
DON'T REFER TO ANY OTHER ZONES
AT ALL.
>> THEY JUST DESCRIBE HOW THEY
WOULD SOME OF THE CHANGES THAT
MIGHT NEED TO BE MADE.
>> YEAH I GUESS I WAS TRYING TO
SPLIT THE DIFFERENCE ASSUMING
THAT WE WE WILL AND SHOULD
REFER TO THOSE.
>> BUT IF YOU SAY WE CAN IF IF
THE DIRECTION IS YOU WANT YOU
JUST WANT THAT TO REFLECT WHAT
THE OTHER ONE SAY.
>> WOULD YOU BE OK IF WE CAME
WHAT LANGUAGE FOR THAT WE
REMOVE THE AMENDED AND D TO DC
ONE THAT WAS VOTED TO BE
REMOVED BUT THEN THE WAY WE
FILL IT IN MIMICS THE WAY THAT
THE OTHER ONE HUNDRED PERCENT
WITHOUT COMING UP WITH THE
EXACT WORDING RIGHT NOW.
>> YES OK ANY OPPOSITION TO
THAT.
>> ALL RIGHT LET'S KEEP GOING.
YOU ALL ARE DOING SUCH A GREAT
JOB ONE FIFTEEN ONE SIXTEEN
THIS WAS A STAFF QUESTION.
>> OH IT WAS A STAFF QUESTION
BECAUSE THERE WERE TWO COMMENTS
REGARDING DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS
THAT I THOUGHT COULD BE A
LARGER DISCUSSION BECAUSE ONE
UM WANTED TO I THINK REMOVE THE
WORD APPROXIMATELY AND ONE
WANTED TO ADD THE WORD MAXIMUM
AND SO I THOUGHT MAYBE ONE IS
TRYING TO GENERALIZE MORE THAN
ONE WAS TRYING TO BE MORE
SPECIFIC.
AND SO I WANTED TO SEE OVERALL
HOW DO YOU ALL FEEL ABOUT HOW
WE WANT TO BE WRITING ABOUT
THESE PARAMETERS AT THIS STAGE?
>> SO YEAH, ON PAGE FIFTEEN IT
SAYS TO REMOVE THE WORD
APPROXIMATELY IT'S ACTUALLY TO
ADD IT ISN'T IT.
>> UM WELL OR JUST ABOUT BEING
CONSISTENT SO ON THE PREVIOUS
WHERE WE WERE A MINUTE AGO UP
THERE YEAH.
UNDER PREFERRED BUILDING FORM
FOR RESIDENTIAL IT WAS
APPROXIMATELY YEAH.
AND THEN IT DOESN'T SAY IT ON
THE NEXT PAGE SO THERE'S JUST
AN INCONSISTENCY.
THE QUESTION STILL STANDS THAT
YOU'RE ASKING I'M JUST NOT SURE
WHETHER WE ARE ADDING IT HERE
OR REMOVING IT THERE.
>> I MEAN IF IT'S IN THE TABLE
DOES IT NEED TO BE IN THE CHART
WITH THAT LEVEL?
>> YOU MEAN INCONSISTENCY
BECAUSE IT'S IN THE TABLE?
THE TABLE IS MORE SPECIFIC.
THE CHART IS LIKE A GRAPH TYPE
OF THING AND SO IT FELT LIKE A
EDIT FOR SPACE AS OPPOSED TO
INTENT OF THE DISTRICT.
AND SO AS LONG AS I MEAN MAYBE
WE COULD JUST TAKE A NOTE THAT
THE INTENT OF THE DISTRICT IS
DETAILED IN THE TABLE ON ONE
TWELVE IN ONE THIRTEEN BECAUSE
OTHERWISE WE WOULD NEED TO ADD
THE APPROXIMATE THAT IS FROM
ONE THIRTEEN ONTO THE TABLE OR
ONTO THE GRAPH TO HAVE THE
MATCH.
IS THAT WHAT EVERYONE.
NO, NO THAT'S NOT WHAT EVERYONE
I'M JUST I'M JUST TRYING TO SEE
IF WE CAN GO AHEAD, CHARLIE
JUST FROM A QUALIFIER
STANDPOINT, IF YOU LOOK AT THE
TEXT ON THE BOTTOM RIGHT, IT
ACTUALLY ALREADY MAKES THAT
DISCLAIMER THAT THIS REMAINS
INTENTIONALLY FLEXIBLE RATHER
THAN PRESCRIPTIVE.
>> SO I DON'T KNOW THAT THERE
IS AN INCONSISTENCY EVEN IF
THAT QUALIFIER OF APPROXIMATE
DOESN'T EXIST THAT I THINK THAT
PARAGRAPH ALREADY PROVIDES.
>> SO TO PEOPLE HAD THIS
CONCERN IF YOU WANT TO MAKE
SURE YOU ARE HEARD NOW THIS IS
THE TIME.
ALL RIGHT.
WE WILL ASSUME THAT YOU HAVE
BEEN SATISFIED.
>> WELL, NOW I WOULD TRY NOT TO
TALK.
I THINK IT'S A LOT TO ASK
PEOPLE TO READ THE FINE PRINT
AT THE BOTTOM RIGHT OR REFER TO
THE CHART AND KNOW THAT THE
CHART IS MORE SO YOU WANT I
THINK JUST ADDING THE WORD APR
115 MAKES IT CONSISTENT WITH
THE CHART ABOVE SO SMALL SCALE
THREE STORIES APPROXIMATELY
THREE STORIES HIGH RESOLUTION
IS WHAT YOU WANT TO CORRECT.
IS THERE SUPPORT?
YES, I THINK YES.
YES I THINK IT'S GOOD BECAUSE
THEN IF THERE IS ONE OR THE
OTHER THEN IT'S GOING TO SAY
THE SAME.
>> I DIDN'T HAVE THE COMMENT
ABOUT MAXIMUM THAT WASN'T ME SO
.
>> ALL RIGHT.
WHO'S THE MAXIMUM?
I THINK THAT WAS ACTUALLY
COMMISSIONER MILT'S WHO'S NOT
HERE.
>> ALL RIGHT.
WELL SORRY COMMISSIONER MILLS,
SHOULD I LEAVE THAT TO THE
SIXTEENTH?
NO, I DON'T THINK WE SHOULD I
DON'T THINK THERE'S ANY SUPPORT
AT THE TABLE TO AT THE FACTS
MAX.
>> OK, IS THERE ANY SUPPORT AT
THE TABLE TO ADD THE MAXIMUM
I'M SORRY I DON'T WANT TO MAKE
ASSUMPTIONS.
>> NO, NO.
OK, SO I THINK WE WE RECEIVED
IT AT OK DIDN'T GET ANY
SUPPORT.
>> OK ALL RIGHT WE'RE ON TO ONE
EIGHTEEN.
>> THIS IS THE SHORT TERM
RENTALS THAT MR. MONROE BROUGHT
UP DURING HIS COMMENTS.
>> I WOULD LOVE IF THE YEAH.
THIS COMMISSIONER SPOKE OUT
BECAUSE THERE WAS NO RATIONALE
SO ANY CONTEXT THAT CAN BE
PROVIDED IN AND I THINK THIS IS
IN REFERENCE TO THE RESOLUTION
THAT COUNCIL PASSED IN JULY
THAT ASKED US TO EXPLICITLY
LOOK AT THE IMPACT OF SHORT
TERM RENTALS ON OUR HOUSING AND
IF IT IS WELL NOW I'M
PARAPHRASING THE WAY I REMEMBER
IF IT DOES HAVE A LARGE IMPACT
THAT WE SHOULD CONSIDER UM IN
THE TRANSITION LAND USE
CATEGORY HAVING SOME LIMITS.
AND SO I THINK THIS
COMMISSIONER'S ASKING SHOULD WE
ONLY LIMIT THAT TO TRANSITION?
>> WASN'T THE LOGIC OF IT BEING
A TRANSITION THAT WE ALREADY
RESTRICTED IN RESIDENTIAL?
YES, IT IS ALREADY RESTRICTED
RIGHT RESIDENTIAL BUT SOME
PREVIOUSLY ZONED OUR DISTRICTS
WILL COME IN TO TRANSITION AND
NOW BE SUBJECT TO SOMETHING
THAT THEY PREVIOUSLY WERE NOT
SUBJECT TO.
SO THAT'S THE THAT'S THE
MOVEMENT AND THEN THE
RESISTANCE IS IS OR ANYTHING TO
PROTECT THAT.
>> I GUESS WHEN WE SAY
RESTRICTIONS ON SHORT TERM
RENTAL USES IN TRANSITION
SHOULD BE EXPLORED DURING
ZONING REVISION, THAT'S WHAT WE
WOULD SAY.
YES, RIGHT.
BUT THE REQUEST IS THAT IT GO
IN THE PLAN THAT'S IN THE PLAN
NOW IT'S IN THE PLAN.
GREAT.
SO IT IS IT IS A I THINK IT
SHOULD IT SHOULD THAT SAME
COMMENT BE IN DO WE WANT TO
ORDER AND RESIDENTIAL AFAS WE
WANT
A FIRM AND RESIDENTIAL IS
THE QUESTION.
>> WELL BECAUSE RESIDENTIAL IS
ALREADY RESTRICTED.
>> YEAH I THINK I KNOW I KNOW I
JUST DO WE WANT TO AFFIRM IT
HERE IN THE COMPLEMENT THAT'S
SOMETHING THAT'S IMPORTANT BUT
CLEARLY THE PEOPLE ARE AWARE
THAT IT'S ALREADY RESTRICTED IN
RESIDENTIAL BECAUSE WE RECEIVED
MULTIPLE COMMENTS ABOUT PEOPLE
TELLING US WE SHOULD RESTRICT
SHORT TERM RENTALS AND IN
RESIDENTIAL HOMES.
THAT STATEMENT SOMEWHERE
CLARIFYING WHERE IT'S ALLOWED
AND WHERE WE THINK IT SHOULD BE
RECONSIDERED WOULD BE REALLY
HELPFUL.
>> I'M NOT IS THAT IT AND GO
AHEAD CONFESSIONALLY SORRY.
>> OH, I THOUGHT IT SAID
RESTRICTIONS ON SHORT TERM
RENTAL USES IN TRANSITION
SHOULD BE EXPLORED AND RIGHT
NOW TO JUST TO CLARIFY MY
UNDERSTANDING IN PRINCIPLE
DWELLING UNITS LIKE YOU IN
ORDER TO DO EIGHT YOU I'M SORRY
STARRER ANYWHERE YOU HAVE TO BE
THE PRINCIPAL HAS TO BE YOUR
PRINCIPAL RESIDENCE.
NO, NOT IN RESIDENTIAL.
>> OK, GOTCHA.
SO SO THERE'S EXISTING UDC
REGULATIONS AND THAT THAT WILL
CONTINUE REGARDLESS.
>> AND THE QUESTION HERE IS
SHOULD WE MAKE IT EXPLICIT THAT
IN TRANSITION IT SHOULD BE
EXPLORED?
>> IS THAT WHAT YOU'RE SAYING,
COMMISSIONER?
I'M LET ME STEP BACK AND SAY
SHORT TERM RENTALS CAN BE
PROBLEMATIC FOR TWO REASONS.
ONE IS THEY CAN BE DISRUPTIVE
TO NEIGHBORS AND NEIGHBORS
DON'T LIKE THEM AND THE SECOND
IS THAT THEY IF IF YOU'RE
TAKING VALUABLE HOUSING STOCK
OUT OF THE HOUSING STOCK SO
THAT PEOPLE CAN RENT THEIR
HOMES, THAT'S PROBLEMATIC
ESPECIALLY WHEN WE'RE TRYING TO
DO EVERYTHING WE CAN TO
INCREASE THE AVAILABILITY
OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND
MARKET RATE OR MINIMAL SINGLE
HOUSING.
I DON'T I'M NOT SO TROUBLED
THAT BECAUSE WE DEAL WITH IT A
CERTAIN WAY NOW WE HAVE TO
CONTINUE DEALING WITH THAT WAY.
I MEAN HERE'S THEIR OPPORTUNITY
TO REVISIT THIS TOPIC AND THINK
ABOUT IT IN THE PLAN AND MAYBE
REVISIT THE ZONING CODE AND IF
THERE ARE PLACES THAT ARE
CURRENTLY DOING SHORT TERM
RENTALS, THEY MAY QUALIFY AS
NONCONFORMING USES THAT WOULD
BE ALLOWED TO CONTINUE.
BUT THAT DOESN'T MEAN WE SHOULD
BE PRECLUDED FROM SAYING WE'RE
NOT GOING TO ALLOWED ANYMORE.
SO I GUESS WHAT I WAS HOPING
FOR WAS A MORE BROAD STATEMENT
THAT WE SHOULD STUDY THE ISSUE
OF SHORT TERM RENTALS AND ITS
IMPACT ITS POTENTIAL IMPACT ON
CITY WIDE, CITY WIDE AND AND
RETHINK IT AS WE REVISIT THE
ZONING CODE WHERE IT SHOULD BE
ALLOWED AND WE'RE NOT ALLOWED.
I THINK WE CAN MAKE A STRONGER
STATEMENT THAT THIS IS AN ISSUE
WE NEED TO PAY ATTENTION TO.
I DON'T THINK WE CAN OR SHOULD
RESOLVE IT RIGHT NOW FOR THE
PLAN.
I THINK WE COULD SEE IN THE
PLAN WE NEED TO STUDY THIS AND
MAKE AND DEAL WITH IS IT IS IT
TRUE THAT OUR POLICY CAN HAVE
STARS ONLY PRINCIPAL RESIDENCE
IS ONLY THERE?
>> OK, SO THAT'S EVERY SINGLE R
CATEGORY.
>> CRESTLINE OK YEAH WE
PROBABLY SHOULD BUT WHERE DOES
THAT LIVE?
>> DOES THAT LIVE IN THE PLAN
OR IS THAT SOMETHING THAT YOU
FEEL THAT LIVES THAT TO YOU BUT
ISN'T THAT A POLICY DECISION.
YEAH.
FROM COUNCIL THAT THEN COMES
DOWN TO THE SOMETHING YOUR
WHOLE PLAN IS A POLICY I
UNDERSTAND BUT I'M SPECIFICALLY
ASKING ABOUT THIS BECAUSE THIS
WAS INITIATED BY COUNCIL.
THEY MAY CHANGES TO SHORT TERM
RENTALS IN THE CITY AND SO I
THINK ONE OF THE THINGS THAT IS
UNIQUE AND WHY THIS LANGUAGE IS
PRESENT IN THIS CATEGORY BUT
NOT OTHERS IS IT THE CITY HAS
DONE THIS EVALUATION IN THE
PAST.
WE YEARS AGO CONDUCTED A SERIES
OF ENGAGEMENT SESSIONS.
WE LOOKED AT A LOT OF MODELS
AND WE CAME TO A CURRENT
REGULATORY FRAMEWORK.
I 100 PERCENT AGREE THAT
DOESN'T MEAN THAT IT'S THE
REGULATORY FRAMEWORK FOREVER.
HOWEVER, I DO WANT TO POINT OUT
THAT SOMETHING THAT'S UNIQUE
ABOUT THE TRANSITION LAND USE
IS IN OUR IN THIS PLANS EFFORTS
TO CONSOLIDATE LAND USE
DISTRICTS A VERY FUNDAMENTAL
ASPECT OF OUR CURRENT
REGULATORY FRAMEWORK IS WHERE
COMMERCIAL USES ARE ALLOWED
SPECIFICALLY WHERE HOTELS ARE
ALLOWED.
SHORT TERM RENTALS HAVE BROAD
FLEXIBILITY BECAUSE THEY ARE
SEEN AS A VERY SIMILAR USE
WHERE RESIDENTIAL USES LIVE
THEY ARE RESTRICTED TO ONLY
BEING PRINCIPAL RESIDENCE.
THE TRANSITION ZONE IS GOING TO
BE A ZONE THAT MARRIES TOGETHER
SOME ASPECTS OF BOTH OF THOSE
CATEGORIES AND THAT'S ONE
REASON WHY I THINK THAT IT
MIGHT BE MORE APPROPRIATE AND
FRANKLY A MORE DIFFICULT
DECISION FOR US TO FIGURE OUT
THE REGULATORY FRAMEWORK FOR
SHORT TERM RENTALS AND
TRANSITION THEN PERHAPS RELYING
ON OUR CURRENT FRAMEWORK FOR
RESIDENTIAL OR HUB COMMISSIONER
JUST TO CLARIFY IT DOES SAPE
RIGHT HERE RESTRICTIONS ON
SHORT TERM RENTAL USES IN
TRANSITION SHOULD BE EXPLORED
DURING THE ZONING REVISION AND
I THINK THE QUESTION RIGHT NOW
AT HAND IS SHOULD THAT IN
TRANSITION BE STRUCK SO THAT
WE'RE LOOKING AT IT CITYWIDE?
>> IS THAT BECAUSE THAT'S
BUILDINGS THAT WE BRING THAT
FORWARD INTO HELP?
>> YEAH, AND THAT'S REALLY THE
I SUPPOSE THE QUESTION AT HAND
HERE.
BUT NOT BECAUSE IT'S THIS AS
DOES IMPACT INVESTORS NEED TO
BE CONSIDERED IN OTHER LAND USE
CATEGORIES OUTSIDE
OF TRANSITION.
>> RIGHT.
BUT IT'S ESTABLISHED IN
RESIDENTIAL HUB.
IT WOULD EXIST AND YEP.
AND SO TRANSITION IS THE ONE
THING THAT'S BEING EXPLORED SO
SO I THINK THE QUESTION TO THIS
PAGE ONE EIGHTEEN IS NO I THINK
IT'S FINE JUST SITTING IN
TRANSITION AND FOR WHAT IT'S
WORTH I THINK MAYBE MORE TO USE
MIGHT BE BUILT IF CARS ARE
ALLOWED IN TO USE FOR EXAMPLE
JUST THROWING THAT OUT THERE
FROM THAT STANDPOINT.
BUT AGAIN, JUST A COUNTERPOINT
TO BE ABLE TO, YOU KNOW, CHEW
ON FOR THE PURPOSE OF THIS
PARTICULAR ONE 18 IS THERE ANY
SUPPORT SO IF WE LEAVE IT AS IT
IS ON ONE EIGHTEEN BUT ADD A
FOOTNOTE TO THE I REFERENCE
OF WHAT EXISTS CURRENTLY IN
RESIDENTIAL I KNOW PEOPLE DON'T
WANT TO READ FOOTNOTES BUT AT
LEAST IT WOULD OR IN NO RATHER
IN THIS CASE IT WOULD STILL BE
IN THE PLAN REFERENCE BEING THE
RESTRICTIONS THAT EXIST ALREADY
THERE BECAUSE IT DOESN'T LOOK
LIKE THEIR SUPPORT TO ADD HOC
TO TRANSITION AND RESIDENTIAL
CURRENTLY ALREADY HAS A SET
OF RESTRICTIONS THOUGH WE
HAVEN'T DECIDED WHAT WE'RE
GOING TO DO AS WE GO FORWARD.
>> SO THE QUESTION MAYBE BACK
TO THE TABLE IS DO WE WANT TO
ADD RESIDENTIAL AND TRANSITION
HERE OR JUST LEAVE IT AS
TRANSITION?
>> I DO NOT THINK WE WANT TO
ADD RESIDENTIAL GREAT BECAUSE
BUT I DO WANT TO JUST VOICE
THAT I THINK I'VE SAID THIS
BEFORE BUT IT'S PERHAPS WORTH
SAYING AGAIN THAT AND STAR
COMMERCIALIZES A HOUSING UNIT
AND IT IS I IN MY VIEW IT IT IS
APPROPRIATE IN SOME AREAS
OF THE CITY BUT DEPENDING ON
WHAT AREA IT CONFLICTS WITH OUR
ACRITICAL AND IF PEOPLE ARE I
MEAN OUR TRANSITION AREAS ARE
RUNNING THROUGH AND CLOSE TO
RESIDENT OLD NEIGHBORHOODS AND
I THINK THAT PEOPLE ARE
SENSITIVE TO I HAD THIS
CONVERSATION ABOUT THE AREAS
WITH MR. DELACOURT AND HE SAID
THAT'S INCONSISTENT WITH YOUR
POLICY.
YOU'VE SUPPORTED A USE TO MAKE
IT POSSIBLE FOR MORE PEOPLE WHO
LIVE IN ANN ARBOR AND THE
MARKET INCENTIVE ONCE ONCE YOU
ALLOW A USED TO BE USED THIS
YEAR THE THE MARKET INCENTIVE
IS SO HIGH TO DO THAT BECAUSE
YOU CAN MAKE SO MUCH MONEY OFF
A.D.A AND YOU CAN MAKE THE ADA
YOU MAKE FINANCIAL SENSE AND HE
SAID DON'T DO THAT.
YOU KNOW PEOPLE DO NOT I MEAN
WE DON'T WANT THE MARKET TO BE
DRIVING EVERYTHING WE THINK
ABOUT WITH HOUSING.
WE ALSO WANT HOUSING TO HELP
WITH THE CONDITION WE'RE SEEING
THAT HARBOR WHICH IS IT IS IT
IS TURNING INTO A CITY WHERE
YOU HAVE THE VERY RICH AND
THOSE WHO HAVE SUBSIDY AND
THAT'S WHO GETS TO LIVE HERE
MOVING FORWARD AND THAT DOESN'T
SEEM GOOD.
SO I'M WORRIED I WORRY ABOUT
STARS BEING ALLOWED TO
TRANSITION BECAUSE I THINK IT
MARKETPLACE'S SOMETHING THAT WE
ARE TRYING TO MAKE ACCESSIBLE
NOT YOU KNOW, NOT OPEN UP MORE
MORE CHANCE FOR A COMMODITY.
>> SO SO FOR THAT REASON IN MY
MIND PREFERENCE WOULD BE TO
TAKE THIS STATEMENT OUT IN THE
DISCUSSION OF TRANSITION ZONES
AND HAD A MORE BROAD STATEMENT
THAT AS WE REVISIT THE ZONING
CODE ENTIRELY WE REVISIT THE
QUESTION OF SHORT TERM RENTALS
AND WHERE THEY SHOULD BE
ALLOWED AND NOT ALLOWED.
IF I HAD TO STRIKE THAT BALANCE
AND NOT NOT TALK ABOUT THEM
JUST IN THE CONTEXT
OF TRANSITION ZONES, WELL WE
COULD BUT THE THING ABOUT
RESIDENTIAL IS THAT WE ALREADY
RESTRICT THEM THERE AND THOSE
THAT WE ALLOW HAD EXISTED
BEFORE THAT RESTRICTION WAS
ADDED AND SO WHATEVER IS
ALLOWABLE IN RESIDENTIAL IS
THERE BECAUSE IT PREDATED A
REGULATION SO THAT WOULDN'T BE
ABLE TO CHANGE.
>> THAT WOULD BE THE NON
CONFORMING USES THAT WOULD
CONTINUE BECAUSE
OF NONCONFORMING USE STATUS.
>> RIGHT.
BUT AND WHAT IS THE POINT
OF REVISITING RESIDENTIAL OTHER
THAN TO MAKE IT LESS
RESTRICTIVE RATHER THAN MORE?
>> UM WELL YOU KNOW, MAYBE WE
HAD A STATEMENT THAT THERE
CURRENTLY RESTRICTED IN
RESIDENTIAL ZONES WE SHOULD
CONTEMPLATE EXPANDING THOSE
RESTRICTIONS OR SOMETHING.
I GUESS I'M JUST NOBODY KNOWS
RIGHT NOW.
I DIDN'T KNOW THAT THEY WERE
RESTRICTED IN RESIDENTIAL
ZONES.
THE POINT IS PRETTY QUIET ON
THAT.
I WANT TO I'M TRYING TO FIGURE
HOW TO SIGNAL THAT YEAH, WE
RECOGNIZE THIS IS AN ISSUE THAT
WE NEED TO GRAPPLE WITH.
YEAH.
IN A MEANINGFUL WAY FOR THESE
REASONS AND SOME EXPLANATION
SOMEWHERE AND I THINK IT'S
PROBABLY TIME EVEN IF THE STAFF
HAS DONE THIS BEFORE IT'S
CHANGING ENOUGH AND QUICKLY
ENOUGH IT'S PROBABLY WORTH
REVISITING THE TOPIC PAUL.
>> I MEAN THIS IS A STINGY
SENTENCE.
THIS CAME OUT OF THE COUNCIL
RESOLUTION WHICH IS WHY IT'S
FOCUSED
ON TRANSITION.
>> THAT'S WHY IT DOESN'T
ADDRESS RESIDENTIAL COUNSELING.
AND I MEAN I'M NOT SAYING THAT
I THINK IT SHOULD ADDRESS OR
NOT BECAUSE I DON'T THINK A
CHANGE CAN BE MADE.
>> BUT I THINK THIS SENTENCE
COULD YOU KNOW, WE IT COULD BE
WELL, WE SHOULD EXPLORE
EXTENDING THE SAME RESTRICTIONS
THAT CURRENTLY EXIST IN
RESIDENTIAL TO TRANSITION.
THAT WOULD BE A LESS STINGY
SENTENCE.
BUT IT'S ALSO VERY
PRESCRIPTIVE.
>> SO I DON'T KNOW QUITE CAN I
BRING OUR ATTENTION TO PAGE
FIFTY FOUR?
IT'S A SHORT TERM RENTAL
IMPACTS THE HOUSING SUPPLY BY
TAKING UNITS OFF THE MARKET THE
CITY WILL EXPLORE THE EXTENT TO
WHICH THIS HAS AFFECTED IN
NUMBERS HOUSING STOCK SO YOU
COULD REMOVE IT HERE IN
TRANSITION AND IT IS PRESENT
THERE AND I THINK THAT COULD BE
SATISFACTORY.
>> THE OTHER THING I JUST WANT
DAYLIGHT FOR EVERYBODY THERE IS
RESIDENTIAL AND ALL OF THESE
NEWLY IMAGINED DISTRICTS.
SO WHEN WE TALK ABOUT
RESIDENTIAL I, I AM CONFUSED
SINCE THERE IS RESIDENTIAL IN
TRANSITION AND THERE IS
RESIDENTIAL IN HUB AND SO I
WONDER IF WE COULD GET A LITTLE
MORE PRECISE IN OUR LANGUAGE
WHEN WE TALK ABOUT IT TO SAY
THINGS THAT ARE EXCLUSIVELY
RESIDENTIAL SO THAT WE ARE
DISTINGUISHING IT BECAUSE AS
SOMEONE WHO HAS LIKE ALMOST ALL
OF THE HALF OF THE TIME I LIVED
HERE IN ANN ARBOR, I LIVED IN A
MORE DENSE RESIDENTIAL AREA AND
NOW AT THIS PHASE OF MY LIFE
I'M IN AN EXCLUSIVE SINGLE
FAMILY HOME SORT
OF RESTRICTION.
>> SO THAT'S JUST THAT'S JUST A
PERSONAL THING FOR ME AS WE
TALK ABOUT THIS IN NOW THE
PROPOSED LAND USE CATEGORIES
ARE MIXED USE NOW THERE IS NO
MORE LIKE EXCLUSIVE.
>> YES, I MEAN THAT THAT IS MY
POINT BUT WHAT I SAW
RESIDENTIAL CAPITAL R
RESIDENTIAL CATEGORY.
>> YEAH.
YEAH.
NOT YEAH.
>> WELL I THINK WHAT WERE THE
REASON WHY WE'RE USING THIS
LANGUAGE?
WE'RE TRYING TO EXPLAIN WHY
TRANSITION POSES A PARTICULAR
PROBLEM IN THIS INSTANCE.
>> SURE NO I GUESS NOT
UNDERSTAND YEAH.
UNDERSTAND 100 CAN I MAKE A
PROPOSAL YOU MAKE ON PAGE ONE
TWO EIGHT ONE NINE UNDER FUTURE
LAND USE APPROACH WE HAVE THESE
SMALL PARAGRAPHS INFILL
DEVELOPMENT, NEW DIVERSE
HOUSING OPTIONS BLAH BLAH BLAH.
YOU COULD HAVE ONE COULD WE
JUST ADD ONE HERE THAT SAYS
SHORT TERM RENTALS AND
BASICALLY RESTATES THAT THEY
CURRENTLY ARE RESTRICTED IN
RESIDENTIAL USE FOR ZONING
SORRY YOU KNOW BLAH BLAH BLAH.
>> YEAH WELL LET'S WHAT DOES
THE LETTER SAY?
>> IT'S IT'S SUPPOSED TO BE
CHALLENGES OR THE REACTION TO
OUR APPROACH TO FUTURE
CHALLENGES AND IN THIS SECTION
SO AND WE COULD JUST OUT
OF HERE BUT I WOULD LEAVE IT IN
I'M NOT ALONE.
I HAVE NO PROBLEMS WITH IT
BEING INTERESTED IN
COMMISSIONER NORTON WANTS A
SMALL PARAGRAPH IT WOULD FIT
HERE I WOULD LIKE TO HAVE THAT
ADDED.
I THINK THE OTHER INFORMATION
CAN YOU EXPOUND ON YOU WOULD
LIKE TO HAVE THAT ADDED WHAT
THAT.
YEAH.
LET ME JUST SAY FIRST I'M
ACTIVE WITH THE MICHIGAN
ASSOCIATION AND PLANNING.
THERE HAVE BEEN EFFORTS IN THE
STATE LEGISLATURE TO PREEMPT
LOCAL ABILITY TO REGULATE SHORT
TERM RENTALS AND IT'S THE
REALTORS WHO ARE DRIVING US AND
THEY DON'T LIKE THEIR THEIR
VIEW IS PRIVATE PROPERTY RIGHTS
.
YOU SHOULD BE ABLE TO RENT YOUR
PROPERTY AS A TERMINAL.
SO WE NEED TO BE MINDFUL ABOUT
WHAT WE'RE DOING HERE GIVEN THE
LARGER IMPACT IT HAS ON THE ON
A STATEWIDE DIALOG ABOUT THIS
REGULATION.
HAVING SAID THAT, I'M QUITE
CONCERNED THAT THE CITY NOT
TURNED INTO A CITY OF SHORT
TERM RENTALS FOR FOOTBALL GAMES
AND TOURISTS AT THE EXPENSE
OF HOUSING STOCK THAT WE NEED
TO PROVIDE.
SO I WANT TO SIGNAL THAT WE'RE
AWARE THAT THIS IS A COMPLEX
PROBLEM AND WE NEED TO REVISIT
IT TO MAKE SURE THAT WE'RE
STRIKING A BALANCE.
AND PART OF WHAT YOU POINTED
OUT ON PAGE 58 IS THAT WE'RE
GOING TO STUDY HOW IT'S
IMPACTED THINGS BUT WE SHOULD
ALSO THEN BE ANALYZING
POTENTIAL REVISIONS TO THE
ZONING CODE TO ADDRESS THIS
PROBLEM IN A IN A FRUITFUL WAY.
>> YOU KNOW, SO IT SOUNDS LIKE
THERE'S THE TABLE FOR ALL
OF THIS ASHRAM'S I'LL SUPPORT
IT.
BUT I'M I'M CONCERNED THAT
WE'RE I MEAN THE NUMBER
OF COMMITTED SHORT TERM RENTALS
IN THE CITY IS LIKE 14 OUT
OF FORTY TWO THOUSAND UNITS.
I THINK WE'RE WAITING TO FIND
THAT NUMBER.
>> IT'S IT'S UNDER ALMOST ANY
SET OF FACTS.
IT'S NOT HUGE AND I REALIZE
PEOPLE ARE CONCERNED ABOUT IT
AND I I UNDERSTAND WE'VE GOT A
LOT OF COMMENTS ABOUT IT BUT I
FEEL LIKE WE'RE OVER INDEXING
ON IT AND I IF WE WANT TO IF WE
WANT TO INCLUDE A BROADER
PARAGRAPH HERE EXPRESSING A
NEED TO STUDY IT AND FOCUS ON
IT, THAT'S FINE.
BUT I DON'T THINK IT'S ACTUALLY
LIKE IT DOES REMOVE UNITS FROM
THE MARKET.
THAT'S TRUE.
BUT IT'S NOT RELATIVE TO THE
THE NUMBER OF UNITS THAT WERE
SHORT.
I DON'T THINK IT'S THE IT'S THE
STRAW THAT STIRS THE DRINK.
>> I THINK THOUGH IT IS
DEPENDING ON THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
>> SURE.
I TOTALLY GET IT.
IT CAN AND CERTAINLY IN MY
NEIGHBORHOOD THERE'S ALREADY
HOUSES IN A VERY WALKABLE, VERY
CLOSE NEIGHBORHOOD THAT ARE
EMPTY TOTALLY GET IT OTHER THAN
EIGHT DAYS A YEAR BECAUSE YOU
CAN GET FIVE THOUSAND DOLLARS A
NIGHT FOR A BEGINNING OF THE
YEAR AND SO I DO I THINK ADDING
SOMETHING IN I THINK SHORT TERM
RENTAL IS HAS AN EFFECT WHETHER
IT'S A BIG EFFECT OR A SMALL
EFFECT, I THINK IT IS PART
OF THE LAND USE THAT IN TWO
THOUSAND NINE DIDN'T EXIST.
AND SO I THINK IT MAKES SENSE
TO HAVE A PARAGRAPH THAT THIS
IS SOMETHING THAT EXISTS FOR US
NOW AND THAT WE SHOULD DO WE
SHOULD DRIVE RATHER THAN IT
DRIVING US AND JUST THAT WE ARE
AWARE OF IT AS MUCH AS
POSSIBLE.
>> I THINK ADDING A PARAGRAPH
HERE AND KEEPING IT WHERE IT IS
TO TALK ABOUT TRANSITION THAT
SOMEONE MIGHT NOTES YES.
I THINK THEIR SUPPORT SO NOT SO
WHAT IS NOT SUPPORTED IS ADDING
LOCAL OR HUB.
YEAH.
SO BASICALLY JUST KEEPING IT
WHERE IT IS AND THEN ADDING AND
I WOULD EVEN THINK IT COULD GO
UNDER THAT NEW AND DIVERSE
HOUSING OPTIONS PARAGRAPH
BECAUSE IT TALKS ABOUT HOW WE
NEED MORE OPTIONS SO I COULD
ADD A PARAGRAPH UNDER THERE
ABOUT IT.
RIGHT I JUST IT SOUNDS LIKE A
SET OF CORE OBJECTIVES GUIDING
THE DEVELOPMENT OF LANIE'S PLAN
THEN THOSE ARE THE CORE
OBJECTIVES I THINK MICHEL I
WOULD SUPPORT WHERE YOU'RE
GOING WITH THAT BY SORT
OF FOLDING IT IN.
I'M NOT SURE THAT HAVING IT HAS
ITS OWN HEADER NECESSARILY
MAKES SENSE THAT I AGREE AND
FOR WHAT IT IS WORTH ON PAGE
ONE THIRTY SIX UNDER
RECOMMENDATIONS ONE POINT TO IT
DOES SPECIFICALLY SAY EXPLORE
THE IMPACTS OF SHORT TERM
RENTALS ON HOUSING SUPPLY AND
PURSUE RESTRICTIONS IN THE
TRANSITION CATEGORY IF
WARRANTED.
SO I'M AND FOR WHAT IT'S WORTH
I AGREE THAT THERE CAN BE
DISPROPORTIONATE IMPACTS
OF STARS ON THE FEEL OF A
NEIGHBORHOOD.
IF MY NEIGHBOR JUST STARTED
DOING THAT HE'D BE AN ABSENTEE
LANDLORD BASICALLY.
RIGHT.
SO SO I CERTAINLY AGREE WITH
THAT.
IT CAN HAVE A NEGATIVE
DETERRING IMPACT EVEN IF IT'S
FOURTEEN OUT OF FORTY TWO
THOUSAND.
I DON'T KNOW THAT THAT
PARTICULAR FIGURE BUT THAT SAID
IT CAN ALSO HAVE A
DISPROPORTIONATE IMPACT.
>> SO THE QUESTION AT HAND I
THINK WE AGREE THAT THERE'S
NEGATIVE IMPACTS THAT WE'RE
ALREADY UDONIS.
YEAH YEAH.
>> THE QUESTION IS ARE WE
MOVING FROM TRANSITION AND
BROADENING TO YEAH I THINK
THERE WAS NO SUPPORT FOR THAT
SO YEAH ADDING THE OTHER I
WOULD JUST LIKE A STATEMENT
THAT WE RECOGNIZE THIS IS A
POTENTIAL PROBLEM THAT WE
SHOULD ADDRESS MORE FULLY AND I
MEAN IT'S EVEN MORE COMPLICATED
AS MR. LEONARD POINTED OUT
BECAUSE OF THE WAY WE'RE
COMBINING COMMERCIAL AND
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS AND SO
THERE'S A LOT HERE THAT WE
SHOULD BE CONTEMPLATING.
SO I WANT TO JUST HAVE THAT
STATED IN THE PLAN AND IF IT
GOES HERE UNDER ITS OWN HEADING
OR IS FOLDED IN, I DON'T CARE.
>> OK, I THINK YOU HAVE WHAT
YOU NEED, RIGHT?
OK, YES.
I THINK I SUPPORTED ONTO PAGE
ONE THIRTY EIGHT SPEEDING UP
THE IMPLEMENTATION TO ONE TO
THREE YEARS FROM I THINK IT WAS
LIKE FOUR TO SIX I DON'T
REMEMBER EXACTLY BUT YEAH AND
THIS WAS COMMISSIONER ADDED AND
SHE AND I WENT BACK AND FORTH
BECAUSE I BELIEVE THAT IT COULD
BE ONE TO THREE OR IT COULD BE
ONGOING AND SHE DIDN'T HAVE A
PREFERENCE EITHER WAY.
SO I PUT WHAT HER ORIGINAL AND
IT WAS OK WE DID RECEIVE A
REQUEST AND PUBLIC COMMENT FROM
BRIAN CHAMBERS FOR IT TO BE
ONGOING AND HE REFERRED MAYBE
TO A VERBAL COMMITMENT FROM HIS
CITY COUNCIL REP AND FROM
PLANNING STAFF.
>> SO MAYBE WE CAN REFER TO
THAT COMMENT OR IF WE AGREE TO
CHANGE TO ONGOING THEN THEN
THAT'S WHEN I WOULD BE IN
SUPPORT OF ONGOING.
>> SO I SWITCHED TO ARGUE.
>> EXCELLENT.
WELL DONE EXACTLY THIS WEEK.
THANKS.
WELL THE HARDEST PART I THINK
IS OVER.
YEAH I THINK I THINK YOU ARE
CORRECT PLANER BINIT BUT I DO
ANALYSIS IF THERE'S ANY STAFF
SUPPORTED EDITS THAT YOU FEEL
HAVE BEEN MISPLACED MAYBE THAT
THEY SHOULD HAVE BEEN UP IN THE
DISCUSSIONS SECTION OTHERWISE
WE TOOK THIS AS YES WE
UNDERSTAND WE'RE GOING TO DO
THIS.
UM BUT IF YOU FEEL LIKE IT
WARRANTS A LARGER DISCUSSION I
THINK THIS IS YOUR OPPORTUNITY
.
I DIDN'T SEE ANYTHING.
ALL RIGHT.
I THINK WE ARE GOOD THERE.
CAN WE JUST CLOSE OUT BY
LOOKING AT THE FACTUAL EDITS?
>> UM, YET IS ANYONE OK?
IS THERE AN OPPORTUNITY TO ADD
ANYTHING TO THE LIST?
>> YES, AS A FACTUAL EDIT NO
YOU CAN ALWAYS ADD ANYTHING
THAT'S A DISCUSSION BECAUSE WE
ARE TALKING ABOUT IT.
>> YEAH SURE.
WHAT WOULD YOU LIKE IF I DIDN'T
KNOW IF WE WERE HOLDING THAT
BACK FOR THE NEXT NO AGAIN NO
WE'RE NOT DOING THIS THIS PLAN
WELL YOU OUGHT TO DECIDE SO I
JUST WANTED TO TAKE UP MR.
WESTFALL COMMENT ABOUT THE WAY
WE HANDLE PARKS OPEN SPACE AND
RECREATIONAL FACILITIES ON THE
LAND USE MAP.
I THINK THAT THAT'S AN
IMPORTANT COMMENT AND I WOULD
LIKE SOME CLARIFICATION ABOUT
WHY IN THIS INSTANCE WE ARE
MAPPING USE AS OPPOSED TO
ZONING OR ARE WE NOT I MEAN
OWNERSHIP SORRY.
>> YEAH, YEAH YOU COULD
CONSIDER BELZONI LIKE SO WE THE
PRIVATE GOLF COURSE RIGHT.
WE CARVED THAT OUT AND WE RE
CLASSIFY THAT AS WAIT FOR IT
WAIT PHYSICIAN TRANSITION LIKE
WHY IF THERE ARE OTHER THINGS
ON HERE WHICH ARE PRIVATELY
OWNED CURRENTLY RECREATIONAL
OUTDOOR THINGS WHY WOULDN'T WE
TREAT THEM THE SAME OR I THINK
YOU KNOW COUNTY FARM PARK IS
CURRENTLY COUNTY BUT OH BUT
THERE'S CURRENTLY A PARK OWNED
BY THE COUNTY WHICH MEANS IT
COULD BECOME SOMETHING ELSE.
I DON'T KNOW MOST ZONING MAPS
OR FUTURE LAND USE MAPS ARE NOT
DONE BY OWNERSHIP.
THEY'RE DONE BY LAND USE.
>> I MEAN THAT'S THE PREMISE
OF THE OF THE MAP IS WE'RE
LOOKING AT HOW HOW IS THE SPACE
USED NOT WHO IS THE OWNER WELL
SO I WOULD SAY THAT DIFFERENTLY
SO IF YOU IF YOU WANT TO
PROPOSE THAT THOSE SHOULD BE
DIFFERENT LAND USE THAN WHAT
THEY ARE THEN YOU SHOULD MAKE
THOSE CHANGES TO THE MAP.
AS WE TALKED ABOUT, THIS MAP IS
CREATED FROM A VARIETY
OF FACTORS THAT'S CREATED FROM
CURRENT USES, EXISTING ZONING
CONSIDERING OTHER PLANS LIKE
TRANSIT ROUTES, THE RIGHT TO
PLAN THE LIKE.
AND SO PART OF THAT IS THIS
PLAN MIGHT IDENTIFY PRIVATELY
OWNED PROPERTY AS CURRENTLY
RECREATIONAL AND APPROPRIATE
FOR LONG TERM USES AS
RECREATIONAL IF YOU DISAGREE
WITH THAT, THEN THIS WOULD BE
THE TIME WHERE YOU WANT TO
PROPOSE AN ALTERNATIVE LAND USE
FOR THOSE THINGS.
>> AND WE WE DID DO THAT WITH
THE PRIVATELY OWNED GOLF CLUB
ON STADIUM.
SO WE'VE WE'VE TAKEN THAT UP.
WE HAVE A PRECEDENT OF DOING
THAT.
SO I THINK IT WOULD JUST BE
FIGURING OUT WHAT THE
UNDERLYING LAND USE WOULD BE
AND THEN PROPOSING THAT AND
SEEING IF THERE SUPPORT AT THE
TABLE TO MAKE THAT CHANGE.
>> I'M NOT PREPARED TO DO THAT
THIS EVENING.
>> OK, WELL THEN SO IT'S LIKE
ALL THE GREEN THINGS AND IT
WILL COME BACK TO OUR DECEMBER
MEETING IF YOU TAKE UP OK,
COULD I ASK A QUESTION OF YOU
THANK JUST REGARDING BASELINE
DATA COLLECTION AND MONITORING
THIS IS ACTUALLY BRINGING UP
ONE OF BRIAN CHAMBERS COMMENTS.
>> THIS JUST HAS TO DO ANNUAL
MONITORING THE CONCEPT OF HOW
DO WE HOLD OURSELVES
ACCOUNTABLE AND COLLECT DATA
RIGHT.
WHILE AND THAT MIGHT NOT HAVE
TO BE THE EXACT PRESCRIPTION
BUT SOME LEVEL OF ASPIRATIONAL
STATEMENT THAT WE SHOULD CREATE
SOME LEVEL OF DATA TRACKING
RELATED TO IMPLEMENTATION AS
WELL AS OUTCOMES ASSOCIATED
WITH THINGS.
I DON'T KNOW IF IT I MEAN I'VE
READ THIS A FEW TIMES BUT I
DON'T KNOW IF SOMETHING
EXPLICIT IS THERE FROM THAT
STANDPOINT JUST A PROFFER FOR
THOUGHT SHOULD WE HAVE SOME
LEVEL OF STATEMENT WITH A
COMMITMENT TOWARDS DATA
MONITORING SLASH ANNUAL
OUTCOMES TRACKING ASSOCIATED
WITH THIS BEFORE YOU CAN I ASK
A QUESTION OF THAT?
SO I DID SEE THAT AND THERE ARE
SOME PREEXISTING TOOLS THAT
TRACK CERTAIN THINGS.
>> IS THIS A MAGIC OUTSIDE
OF THAT OR IS IT AN AGGREGATION
OF THOSE TOOLS PLUS THINGS WE
ARE NOT CURRENTLY TRACKING A
DASHBOARD SOMETHING THAT
AGGREGATES BUT ALSO POSSIBLY
INCLUDES MORE DATA LIKE TREE
CANOPY HOUSING DATA, THINGS
LIKE SO THERE'S STUFF THAT YOUR
STAFF IS ALREADY SO IN OUR
IMPLEMENTATION MATRIX.
>> YEAH, THERE ARE METRICS
ATTACHED TO ALL OF THE GOALS
AND STRATEGIES.
SO THAT'S THE DATA THAT WE'VE
ALREADY COMMITTED TO COLLECTING
RIGHT TO TRACK OUR PROGRESS.
>> SO I DON'T KNOW IF YOU WANT
ME TO IF YOU WANT.
>> YES DASHBOARD SO I'VE YEAH
I'VE TALKED TO STAFF ABOUT ALL
OF THEM.
THESE ARE ALREADY THINGS THAT
WE COLLECT AND HAVE.
SO IF IT'S IF THE QUESTION IS A
MATTER OF COMPILING ALL OF THAT
FOR A COMPANY TO SHARE
ANNUALLY, I THINK THAT'S
DOABLE.
>> ALL OF THE DATA ALREADY
EXISTS THROUGH DIFFERENT UNITS
AND DEPARTMENTS OF THE CITY.
BUT IF THE QUESTION IS TO BE
CONSOLIDATED, WE MIGHT WANT TO
ADD THAT AS AN ACTION TO OUR
IMPLEMENTATION MATRIX.
>> I SUPPOSE WHAT I'M THINKING
IS A FRAMEWORK FOR TRANSPARENCY
IN THAT DATA AND SOMETHING
THAT'S ACCESSIBLE SO WHETHER
IT'S A DASHBOARD AND IT AGAIN
DOESN'T HAVE TO BE PRESCRIPTIVE
THAT PRESCRIPTIVE ABOUT THE
EXACT ACTUAL FORM OF THAT BUT
SOME ASPIRATES THAT WE HAVE TO
BE TRANSPARENT WITH THAT DATA
AND MAKE IT ACCESSIBLE FOR
FOLKS SO THAT WE CAN TRACK HOW
IS THIS IMPACTING RIGHT.
IS THIS WORKING SO I COULD
IMAGINE SOMETHING LIKE THAT ON
THE ENGAGE WEBSITE THAT
PLANNING IT YOU KNOW, UPDATES
BECAUSE THAT'S A MORE
ACCESSIBLE PLACE EVEN THAN THE
CURRENTLY NEWLY RELEASED DATA
HUB BECAUSE A LOT OF THAT DATA
IS PRESENTED FOR LIKE RESEARCH
AND AGGREGATION AND OTHER
PROGRAMS AND IT'S NOT, IF YOU
WILL, HUMAN READABLE FOR A LOT
OF PEOPLE.
>> YEAH, IT SOUNDS LIKE IT
SOUNDS LIKE THEIR SUPPORT AND
THE DATA EXISTS.
IT'S JUST ENTERTAINING AND
WE'LL TRACK THAT.
YEAH YEAH I I 100 PERCENT AGREE
THAT'S PART OF OUR PART OF OUR
RESOURCE COMMITMENT TO PLANNING
FRANKLY I THINK HAVING
DEDICATED STAFF OH YEAH.
>> TO TO ATTEND TO THIS TO
REPORT OUT TO MAKE PROGRESS IS
REPORTING OUT IT'S GOING TO BE
A BIG PART OF THAT.
NOT EXACTLY BUT JUST TO PREVIEW
STEP THE PLANNING TEAM HAS PUT
TOGETHER A TWO YEAR SNAPSHOT
OF SOME ACTIVITY THAT WE'VE
DONE THAT IT ALSO FEEDS
DASHBOARD DATA ABOUT HOUSING
UNITS, NEW DEVELOPMENT AND THE
LIKE THAT'LL BE ROLLED OUT TO
YOU AND SOME OF THE OTHER
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS THAT WE
WORK WITH AND THE PUBLIC SOON.
SO I KNOW IT'S NOVEMBER AND
IT'S A TWENTY THREE TWENTY FOUR
REPORT BUT IT IS A REPORT.
SO WHEN YOU GET THAT I I THINK
THAT WOULD BE AN OPPORTUNITY
FOR YOU AND THE PUBLIC TO NOT
ONLY SEE WHAT WE'VE DONE BUT TO
COMMISSIONER TO YOUR POINT IT
MIGHT BE A GOOD WAY FOR YOU TO
START SEEING SOME INFORMATION.
WHAT ARE WE MISSING?
WHAT ARE SOME DIFFERENT WAYS WE
COULD PRESENT IT?
WHAT ARE SOME GAPS?
SO LOOK FOR THAT.
I WAS HOPING THAT THERE WOULD
BE ELECTRIFICATION DATA ON THAT
IS MIGHT THERE BE?
>> I BELIEVE SO.
YEAH.
I'D HAVE TO DOUBLE CHECK THE
MATRIX RIGHT NOW BUT I HAVE
BEEN TALKING TO OSSI ABOUT
THEIR BENCHMARKING ORDINANCE
WHICH TRACKS THOSE TYPE
OF THINGS RIGHT.
AND PEOPLE DO REALLY SEEM TO
LIKE THE ROADS DASHBOARD.
>> THE ROADS DASHBOARD.
YES.
THE THE ROADS THAT WE'RE FIXING
AND STUFF UM THAT THOSE KINDS
OF DISPLAYS OF DATA ARE REALLY
HELPFUL.
>> I DON'T KNOW HOW EXACTLY
THAT WOULD TAKE SHAPE.
>> YOU KNOW, MAYBE A MONOPOLY
BOARD NO, I'M JUST KIDDING BUT
WELL WE DO HAVE WE DO HAVE A
PUBLIC SPACE IN PUBLIC MIND MAP
WHERE YOU CAN SEE ALL
DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY THAT'S
BEEN APPROVED ARE UNDER REVIEW
THAT'S SEARCHABLE BY TYPE
OF PROJECT.
IT'S SEARCHABLE BY YEAR BUT
ABSOLUTELY THERE IS AND I'LL
TAKE IT A STEP FURTHER.
I WANT TO BE HONEST WE RELIED
ON A LOT OF AVAILABLE DATA AS
MICHELLE SAID.
WE TALKED TO A LOT OF PEOPLE TO
MAKE SURE WE WERE HONEST ABOUT
WHAT WE COULD PROVIDE AND NOT
THAT DOESN'T HAVE TO BE THE END
OF IT.
WE MIGHT FIND THAT THERE ARE
OTHER DATA SOURCES THAT AREN'T
BEING TRACKED RIGHT NOW THAT WE
WANT TO INCORPORATE AND SO
THAT'LL BE A LEARNING EFFORT
HAS OVER THE LIFE OF THIS PLAN.
>> THAT'S WONDERFUL.
I JUST WONDERED IF I MEAN I
MADE A LIST FROM THE PUBLIC UH
,COMMENTS THAT WE RECEIVED AND
AMAZINGLY SO MANY OF THE
COMMISSIONER COMMENTS ALREADY
ADDRESSED THOSE.
AND SO WE HAVE ADDRESSED THE WE
TOOK OUT HIGH RISE MIXED USE
BUILDING.
WE MADE A SIGNIFICANT
ADDRESSING OF THE HISTORIC
DISTRICTS THANKS TO
COMMISSIONER NORTON.
WE YEAH, WE DID THE ONGOING
THING.
OH OK.
SO THE THINGS THAT ARE ON MY
AND WE JUST TALKED ABOUT
ACCOUNTABILITY MEASURES AND
ANNUAL OUTCOMES CAN WE RESOLVE
THAT COMPETITION BEFORE YOU
MOVE?
>> OH SURE.
INSTEAD OF I JUST DIDN'T IT
WASN'T CLEAR TO ME ARE WE
SAYING THAT WE'RE GOING TO ADD
SOMETHING TO THE PLAN THAT
WE'RE COMMITTING TO ANNUAL
REPORTING OF OUTCOMES BECAUSE I
DON'T THINK THERE'S ANYTHING IN
THE PLAN CURRENTLY ABOUT THE
FREQUENCY OF REPORTING.
BUT I DIDN'T I WASN'T SURE WE
CAN YEAH, WE DIDN'T AGREE TO
THAT YET RIGHT NOW OR IT COULD
BE SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
>> WE HAVE A COMMITMENT TO
IMPROVING TRANSPARENCY AND
ACCESSIBILITY OF DATA AS IT
RELATES TO TRACKING.
>> SO SOMETHING THAT AGAIN I
JUST WANT SOME LEVEL
OF QUALITATIVE COMMITMENT
TOWARDS DOING THIS.
>> OTHERWISE IT'S YOU KNOW, WE
CAN'T OR WE HAVE TO SO IT'S
JUST SOME LEVEL OF OVERVIEW.
I DON'T KNOW IT HAS TO BE AS
PRESCRIPTIVE AS ANNUAL BUT THAT
WE ARE BECAUSE AN ONGOING
DASHBOARD ACTUALLY WOULD BE
MORE THAN ANNUAL.
>> IT WOULD ACTUALLY THE
FREQUENCY WOULD BE A LOT MORE
ACTIVE AND SO JUST THAT WE HAVE
A COMMITMENT TOWARDS
TRANSPARENCY THROUGH DATA
PUBLISHING AND MAKING IT
ACCESSIBLE TO THE PUBLIC.
BUT IN JUST THE FRAMEWORK THAT
SHOULD BE CRITICAL TO HOLDING
ACCOUNTABILITY TOWARDS THESE
GOALS IS THE RECOMMENDATION
THAT WE ADD THAT TO THE
IMPLEMENTATION METRICS AS LIKE
A IS AN ACTN?
>> I THINK YOU COULD SAY
SOMETHING LIKE THE THE OUTCOMES
AND METRICS WILL BE SORT
OF REPORTED ON THIS DASHBOARD
AS AN ACTION.
YEAH, YEAH.
OK BECAUSE THEN THAT WAY WE'RE
OVER COMMITTING TO SOME
DELIVERABLE BUT THE DASHBOARD
IS THE AGGREGATION OF ALL
OF THE METRICS AND THEN IT'S
TRANSPARENT, IT'S SUCCESSFUL.
PEOPLE CAN GET TO IT AT ANY
TIME BY COMMISSIONER.
>> DID YOU GREG?
>> SO I JUST HAD TWO THINGS
JUST TWO.
>> YEAH.
BECAUSE EVERYTHING THAT WE'VE
TALKED ABOUT WAS ON MY LIST
STARS WAS ALSO ON MY LIST.
WE JUST TALKED ABOUT IT.
SO THERE WERE TWO THINGS FROM
THE PUBLIC COMMENTS.
ONE WAS ADDING SOMETHING ABOUT
SUPPORTING NONPROFIT PARTNERS
TO REDUCE HOMELESSNESS AND
DISPLACEMENT.
>> I WASN'T SURE EXACTLY WHERE
THAT WOULD GO OR IF THAT SHOULD
GO BUT I JUST WANTED TO RAISE
IT THAT I SAW THAT MORE THAN
ONCE AND THOUGHT IT WAS EITHER
YOU SHOULD PROBABLY DO WHERE
WE'RE ALREADY
DOING IT OR AND
THEN I HAVE BEEN THINKING ABOUT
AND THERE WAS OTHER PEOPLE IN
THE PUBLIC WHO DID ADOPTING
MORE FLEXIBLE ATTITUDE
REGULATIONS I MEAN INCREASING
THE SIZE PERHAPS NOT TO SIXTEEN
HUNDRED SQUARE BUT WHAT WE HAVE
NOW IS ENDS UP TO BE A SMALL
EXPENSIVE THING.
I DON'T KNOW THAT ANYTHING
WOULD MAKE THEM MORE LIKELY TO
HAPPEN HERE.
THEY SEEM TO SUCCEED BETTER
WHERE THEY ALREADY EXISTED
BEFORE THEY LEGALIZED AS IN
VANCOUVER BUT AND THEN IN
PLACES WHERE THE HOUSING MARKET
IS EVEN CRAZIER THAN OURS.
>> BUT BUT I SO I'M SAYING THIS
IS SOMETHING THAT I NOTED IT'S
BEEN ON MY MIND.
>> I DON'T KNOW IF THAT SHOULD
BE IN THE CLUB OR IT SHOULD BE
SOMETHING THAT WE HAVE AS
COMMISSIONER PROPOSED BUSINESS
FOR IN THE FUTURE AFTER WE
FINISHED REZONING THE PLAN.
YOU'RE SO OPTIMISTIC.
OK, CAN WE JUST HOLD THAT?
YES.
AND THEN TO YOUR FIRST POINT
ABOUT THE NON-PROFITS AND THE
MATRIX UNDER ONE FOUR THERE'S A
MOTTO MODIFY AND ADAPT
REGULATIONS THAT ARE SUPPORTIVE
VARIETY OF HOUSING OWNERSHIP
MODELS INCLUDING NON-PROFITS
TRUST COOPERATIVE HOUSING
COHOUSING AND OR ROOM AND GROUP
HOUSING DOES THAT FIT THAT OR
DID YOU INTEND SOMETHING
DIFFERENT THAN WHAT I TOOK FROM
THE COMMENTS THAT I SAW WAS A
MORE EXPLICIT REFERENCE TO
SUPPORTING NONPROFIT PARTNERS
SO WHO ARE WORKING IN THE AREA
AND SPECIFICALLY AROUND
HOMELESSNESS?
>> YEAH, HOMELESSNESS AND AND
THE PLAN WOULD I'M JUST TRYING
TO LOCATE THIS INSIDE THAT
THING I I IMMEDIATELY THOUGHT
ABOUT IS WE CAN ADOPT
REGULATIONS THAT MAKE IT EASIER
FOR NON PROFIT PARTNERS TO
BUILD HOUSING SO LIKE WE GET
RID OF THE RULE THAT REQUIRED
AVALON TO DO A PAD FOR THE 13
FOOT OVERHANG ON THEIR ADJACENT
PROPERTIES.
THAT WOULD BE SOMETHING I WOULD
SUPPORT.
BUT HOW DO WE HOW TO WEAR HOW
DO WE LAND THAT?
>> YEAH, THAT'S THAT'S THAT
THAT'S A CHALLENGE I I MEAN WE
CAN DEFINITELY SET THE GOAL.
I THINK THAT THE WAYS WE THE
WAYS THAT ARE LOGICAL TO DO IT
FROM A LAND USE PLANNING AND
REGULATORY FRAMEWORK ARE FROM
SPACE.
SO IT WOULD BE UM HOW WE ALLOW
MORE HOUSING TO BE BUILT HOW TO
LIKE IF IT'S HOMELESSNESS
MAKING SURE THAT WE'RE
PROVIDING BROAD OPPORTUNITIES
FOR SHELTERS TO BE LOCATED A
LOT OF DIFFERENT GEOGRAPHIES
UH, SUPPORT SERVICES ARE
FLEXIBLE AND ABLE TO BE LOCATED
IN A LOT OF GEOGRAPHIES.
>> I THINK MORE GENERALLY AS A
CITY THE CITY DOES SUPPORT
NONPROFITS.
THE CITY UNLIKE A LOT OF OTHER
CITIES ACTUALLY PUTS THEIR
MONEY WHERE THEIR MOUTH IS IN
PUTTING DOLLARS INTO, YOU KNOW,
RESPONSE AGENCIES FRONT LINE
SERVICE AGENCIES AND SO
INCLUDING THAT IN THE PLAN AS
AN ENDORSEMENT OF THAT EVEN
THOUGH ASPECTS OF THAT MIGHT
EXPAND BEYOND THIS TABLE OR SO
PLANNER IS THERE IS THAT A
CLEAR ENOUGH TASK FOR YOU TO
FIND A PLACE IN THE PLAN TO ADD
SUPPORTIVE SENTENCES THAT
CONVEY HE SOUNDS LIKE HE KNOWS
HOW TO WRITE WELL, I CAN
SATISFY YEAH.
>> WHAT YOU ARE SEEKING
GESTURES.
YEAH I THINK THAT'S GREAT
BECAUSE YES I THINK IT'S GREAT
ALWAYS TO BE REMINDED THAT WE
NEED TO DIFFERENTIATE BETWEEN
THE INSTRUMENTS THAT WE HAVE
CONTROL OVER AND ALSO TO
REMEMBER THAT WE HAVE ALL THOSE
BOXES WHERE WE TALK ABOUT
THINGS THAT THE CITY'S ALREADY
DOING AND WE DEFINITELY ARE ONE
OF THE ONLY IF NOT THE ONLY
CITY IN WASHINGTON COUNTY THAT
PAYS ADDITIONAL MONEY ON TOP
OF THE HEALTH AND SAFETY
MILLAGE IN ORDER TO SUPPORT AN
ARRAY OF SERVICES BARRIER
BUSTERS AS WELL AS HOUSING AND
YOU PARTICIPATE IN THAT.
>> AND SO YEAH, IT WOULD BE
GREAT TO PAT OURSELVES ON THE
BACK THERE.
CAN I COME BACK TO ACTUALLY THE
POINT ABOUT THE EVALUATIVE
CYCLES?
ACTUALLY I WOULD LIKE TO SEE AN
ANNUAL OUTCOMES REPORT.
I WOULD LIKE TO SEE IF THE LIKE
BUT ALSO I WANT STAFF TO HAVE A
DISCUSSION INTERNALLY ABOUT
WHAT KIND OF MANPOWER OR
WOMANPOWER WOULD BE REQUIRED
FOR THAT PERSON.
POWER WOULD BE REQUIRED FOR
THAT.
SO SO I WOULD TRY TO ADD
SPECIFICALLY AN ANNUAL OUTCOMES
REPORT WHATEVER IS REQUIRED.
>> THANK YOU BUT IT COULD BE
AGGREGATED FROM THE DASHBOARD.
SURE.
SO I I DON'T KNOW THAT IT NEEDS
TO BE A LIKE A DIFFERENT WORK
EFFORT.
YOU COULD JUST TAKE THE
DASHBOARD AND ANNUALLY GIVE US
AN UPDATE.
>> SURE.
YES.
>> SORRY.
OK WELL FRIENDS I THINK WE ONE
MORE THING OH YOU HAVE OR
THAT'S NOT ON THE DOCUMENT.
>> WELL NO I WAS JUST GOING TO
SAY THE OTHER DOCUMENT THAT WAS
IN YOUR PACKET IF YOU WANTED TO
BRING UP ANY PUBLIC COMMENT.
I KNOW THERE WERE THERE WAS A
LOT SO IF YOU DIDN'T HAVE A
CHANCE TO READ THROUGH THEM
ALL, WE STILL HAVE THE DECEMBER
16TH MEETING.
>> WELL, COMMISSIONER JUST WENT
THROUGH THEM AND HIGHLIGHTED
THE ONES THAT SHE SAW THAT
REPEAT IT.
>> SO THAT'S WHAT WE JUST DID.
OK, AND THEN I WILL JUST FOR
THE PUBLIC UM IF YOU SUBMITTED
YOUR COMMENT AFTER NOON ON THE
THURSDAY PRIOR TO A MEETING, IT
WILL GO INTO THE NEXT BRACKET.
>> SO IF YOU SUBMITTED LAST
FRIDAY AND YOU DON'T SEE YOUR
COMMENT HERE IT IS GOING IN THE
NEXT PACKET.
>> SO YOU WILL PROBABLY HAVE
YOU KNOW, YOU'LL HAVE A WHOLE
NOTHER ROUND OF COMMENTS
SUBMITTED IN YOUR NEXT PACKET
FOR YOU ALL TO REVIEW.
>> CAN I ASK A QUICK QUESTION
ABOUT THAT?
SO DECEMBER 16TH BUT THE PUBLIC
COMMENT PERIOD DOESN'T CLOSE
UNTIL JANUARY 5TH.
SO WHAT'S GOING TO HAPPEN WITH
THOSE COMMENTS IN BETWEEN THOSE
DATES?
>> WE'LL HAVE TO GET THOSE TWO
FOR YOUR JANUARY WEDDING.
>> OK, UM, I JUST WANTED TO SAY
I ALSO READ THROUGH ALL OF THE
PUBLIC COMMENTS AND TOOK NOTES
AND I THINK WE ADDRESSED MOST
OF THE THINGS THAT I SAW MANY
OF THE THINGS THAT I SAW THERE
ARE OF COMMENTS I KNOW THAT
JUST SAY I DON'T LIKE THIS OR
GREAT JOB WE DIDN'T ADDRESS
THOSE.
>> BUT THE ONE THING I WANTED
TO ADDRESS IS THAT SORRY MR.
MUNRO MR. MONROE MADE A COMMENT
ABOUT NOT LIMITATIONS ON
ASSEMBLY AND I JUST WANTED TO
PERSONALLY SAY THAT THAT IS
SOMETHING THAT I'M VERY AWARE
OF BUT I THINK IT DOESN'T MAKE
SENSE IN THE CURRENT PLAN.
>> IT'S PART OF IT'S WHEN WE
TALK ABOUT THE LANGUAGE AROUND
DIMENSIONAL RESTRICTIONS OR
APPROPRIATE SCALE, THAT'S WHERE
IT WILL HAPPEN.
BUT IT IS NOT.
IT IS NOT.
IT'S ON THE LIST VERY CLEARLY
IN BOLD.
IT'S NOT SOMETHING THAT'S GOING
TO SLIP THROUGH THE CRACKS
BECAUSE I THINK THAT IS A BIG
PART OF THINKING ABOUT WHAT
HAPPENS IN THESE ZONES.
>> SO I JUST WANTED TO RESPOND
TO THAT.
ALL RIGHT WITH THAT ARE THERE
ANY OTHER COMMISSIONER COMMENTS
?
WELL, PINER BENNETT, THANK YOU
SO MUCH FOR AGGREGATING ALL
THESE COMMENTS, PRESENTING
THESE EDITS AND HELPING LEAD US
THROUGH THIS ROBUST DISCUSSION
.
>> MY PLEASURE.
WILL YOU JUST RECAP THE NEXT
STEPS FOR US PLEASE?
THE NEXT STEPS FOR YOU IN
REGARDS TO THE COMPREHENSIVE
LAND USE PLAN IS TO CHECK YOUR
PACKET ON DECEMBER 11TH AND
THAT'S WHERE THERE WILL BE
ANOTHER ROUND OF PUBLIC COMMENT
AND THEN I SUPPOSE IF YOU ALL
HAVE ANY MORE EDITS YOU COULD
SUBMIT THEM THEN.
>> BUT THIS WAS MEANT TO BE
YOUR ONE SHOT AND FRANKLY JUST
THAT WAS A BACK UPDATE IN CASE
WE DIDN'T FINISH TONIGHT AS AS
PREVIOUS MEETINGS HAVE TOLD US
ONE I GUESS THAT'S WHAT I'M
FISHING FOR.
LIKE IF WE ARE GOING TO HAVE IF
THE PUBLIC OPTION ENDS IN
JANUARY AND WE'RE GOING TO HAVE
A MEETING IN JANUARY, WE'RE
LOOKING AT PUBLIC COMMENT THIS
INTERIM ONE WOULD BE A CHANCE
FOR US TO MANAGE THE VOLUME.
>> BUT I'M WONDERING IF WE WANT
TO TRACK THE VOLUME AND MAKE A
CALL ABOUT WHETHER WE NEED TO
DO THAT.
BUT MAYBE WE ALREADY NOTICED
THAT WE WERE GOING TO DO IT.
>> SO WE NEED TO WE SHOULD DO
IT.
I'M SORRY YOU ASKING IF WE HAD
IF WE DIDN'T RECEIVE A TON
OF NEW COMMENTS THAT WE WOULD
NOT USE THE SIXTEENTH OR THE
SIXTEENTH AS A REGULAR MEETING?
>> RIGHT.
YEAH, IT'S JUST IT'S JUST
WHETHER IT'S JUST WHETHER THIS
IS ON THE AGENDA AND WHETHER WE
MEET AT FIVE THIRTY.
>> GOT IT.
OK SO I I THINK MR. LEONARD AND
I COULD PROBABLY MAKE AN
ASSESSMENT OF WHERE WE ARE AT
THAT POINT AND WHETHER IT'S A
WE'LL KEEP IT AT FIVE THIRTY OR
MOVE IT TO SEVEN AND THE SIGNAL
FROM STAFF IS THIS WAS THE
COMMISSION'S OPPORTUNITY TO
MAKE ITS FINAL EDITS AND I
DIDN'T SEE ANYBODY SAY BUT WAIT
BUT I DO WANT TO SAY I SPOKE
TOO SOON.
BERNARD THERE'S A REASON THAT
YOU HAVE AN OPEN PUBLIC COMMENT
PERIOD AND I WANT TO MAKE IT
CLEAR THAT IF PUBLIC COMMENTS
COME IN THAT WE REALIZE OH MY
GOSH, WE NEED TO DEAL WITH
THIS, WE WILL.
YEAH, I DON'T THINK I DON'T
THINK THAT ANYBODY WAS
EXCLUDING THAT.
YEAH, I DON'T THINK ANYONE I
DON'T HAVE I MEAN I'M NOT LIKE
REGURGITATING NEW THINGS I CAN
SURE I DEFINITELY WANT TO HAVE
THE TIME TO REVIEW THE COMMENTS
THAT COME IN AND MAKE SURE
WE'RE NOT LETTING SOMETHING
IMPORTANT SLIP THROUGH THE
CRACKS.
>> OK, GREAT.
>> NOW I THINK WE'RE ALL ON THE
SAME PAGE THERE.
ONE MORE QUESTION SORRY.
NO WELL I DIDN'T REALIZE THAT
FOR SOME REASON I THOUGHT THIS
WAS A PROCESS WHERE WE WOULD
KIND OF THERE WOULD BE A STAGE
WHERE YOU WOULD APPROVE WITH
MODIFICATIONS.
>> RIGHT.
IT'S LIKE YOU SUBMIT A PAPER
AND IT'S ACCEPTED AS A MINOR
REVISION AND YOU DON'T HAVE TO
REVISE AND RESUBMIT IT TO GET
IT APPROVED.
SO BUT YOU INDICATED TO ME THAT
ACTUALLY YOU ARE GOING TO SEE
ANOTHER FINAL FINAL DRAFT.
>> YES.
TO CHECK THE PUBLIC HEARING
INCORPORATED SO AT THE
CONCLUSION SO WE'RE TRYING TO
WE'RE TRYING TO MANAGE YOUR
WORKLOAD RIGHT NOW.
SO THAT WAS THE INTENTION
OF TONIGHT AND THE DECEMBER
MEETING.
ABSOLUTELY.
YOU WE'RE GOING TO CONTINUE TO
SHARE WITH YOU ALL OF THE
PUBLIC COMMENTS THAT ARE
RECEIVED THROUGH JANUARY 5TH
NOT ONLY FROM THE PUBLIC BUT IF
WE RECEIVE ANYTHING FROM
SURROUNDING JURISDICTIONS AND
STAKEHOLDERS AS WELL AT THE
CONCLUSION OF THAT WE NEED TO
HEAR FROM YOU IF ANY ADDITIONAL
EDITS YOU DESIRE BASED ON THOSE
COMMENTS, THEN WE NEED TO MAKE
THE CHANGES FROM TONIGHT ALL
THE WAY THROUGH ANYTHING YOU
PRESCRIBE AFTER THE CONCLUSION
OF THAT PERIOD SO THAT WE CAN
SHARE WITH YOU AND THE PUBLIC A
FULLY REVISED PLAN FOR
CONSIDERATION IN A PUBLIC
HEARING IDEALLY IN FEBRUARY AT
THIS BOARD FOR YOU TO ADOPT IT
AND FORWARD TO THE CITY COUNCIL
POTENTIALLY FOR THEIR ADOPTION
.
>> ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER NORD.
>> ONE OF THE REQUESTS I'M
GOING BACK TO THE FUZZINESS
OF THE LAND USE MAP SURELY IT
JUST TO MY MIND IT LOOKS LIKE A
REALLY GROSSLY PIXELLATED MAP.
IT DOESN'T REALLY CONVEY THE
IDEA THAT THERE ARE FUZZY
BOUNDARIES.
IT JUST CONVEYS TO ME IT'S A
REALLY POORLY PIXILATED MAP.
SURELY WE HAVE THE GRAPHIC
ABILITY TO DO A BETTER JOB
OF KIND OF MAKING A LEGIBLE MAP
THAT HAS FUZZY BOUNDARIES.
IS THAT POSSIBLE FOR THE TO BE
WORKING ON THAT?
THIS IS SOMETHING THAT I
STRUGGLED WITH THE CONSULTANTS.
IT IS A BALANCE BEING WE CAN
ABSOLUTELY DO THAT AND THAT'S
WHERE WE STARTED THEN I CANNOT
PUBLISH YOU GUYS MATT IF WE
WANT A MAP IT'S GOING TO BE
SHARED AND IT'S GOING TO BE
AVAILABLE TO WHOEVER WANTS TO
USE IT AT SOME POINT WE'RE
GOING HAVE I I'VE ASKED MY GUYS
PEOPLE THEY CAN'T GIVE ME FUZZY
LINES.
>> SO TODAY I'M YEAH.
WELL I MEAN IF WE'RE TRYING TO
CONVEY A MAP THAT YOU CAN
VISUALLY SEE ARE FUZZY
BOUNDARIES, WHAT'S THE BENEFIT
OF HAVING A GIANT MAP AND THAT
MAP IS AVAILABLE TO THE PUBLIC
AND IT'S IN ENOUGH RESOLUTION
TO SEE WHAT YOU NEED TO SEE
BECAUSE JUST BECAUSE PEOPLE
STILL DESPITE THAT GENERALITY
PEOPLE STILL REALLY WANT TO
UNDERSTAND THE CONTEXT OF THAT
FUZZY LINE RELATIVE TO THEIR
PROPERTY.
THAT'S AN INCOMPATIBLE GOAL IF
WE IF WE'RE GOING TO YEAH.
>> I DON'T THINK IT IS.
I THINK IT IS.
I THINK IT IS SO YEAH WE DON'T
HAVE TO PROVIDE A JAZZ THAT IS
A TOOL THAT WOULD BE HELPFUL
FOR US TO UNDERSTAND PROGRESS
FOR REPORTING AT SOME POINT YOU
MIGHT ASK US HOW MUCH OF THE
LAND USE HAS BEEN IMPLEMENTED
AND THAT WOULD BE A TOOL WE
WOULD USE TO HELP REPORT ON IT.
SO THAT'S THE BALANCE THAT
WE'RE TRYING TO STRIKE.
>> YEAH.
SO IF WE'RE NOT GOING TO I MEAN
IF WE ARE GOING TO PRODUCE
GIANT MAP THAT WILL ALLOW
PEOPLE TO GO DOWN TO THEIR
PARCEL THAT I DON'T SEE THE
BENEFIT OF HAVING GROSSLY
PIXELLATED FUZZY BOUNDARY MAP.
WHY DON'T WE JUST DRAW A
PRECISE MAP SOME MAYBE BECAUSE
WE HAVEN'T DONE THE THE
PROPERTY BY PROPERTY ASSESSMENT
OF THOSE DISTRICTS AND WE WON'T
WE WILL BE ABLE TO DO THAT JUST
YET FROM WHAT I'VE AT LEAST
FROM THE CONVERSATION I HAD
WITH STAFF, THERE ARE SOME
IMPLICATIONS THAT WE WE'RE
GOING TO NEED TO CONSIDER IF WE
WANTED A PERSON BY PERSON
FUTURE LAND USE MAP IT WOULD
REQUIRE US ADOPTING A LOT
OF YEAH.
>> EXAMINATION EXAMINATION AT A
PERSON BY PERSON MAP WHAT IT
WOULD BE LIKE KIND OF MAKING A
ZONING MAP RIGHT.
NOT SOMETHING THAT WE NEED TO
DECIDE RIGHT NOW.
BUT MY MY SUGGESTION WOULD BE
IF IF THE INTENT OF THE MAP IS
TO HAVE FUZZY BOUNDARIES TO
SIGNAL THAT THERE'S SOME
FLUIDITY HERE, THEN I THINK IT
WOULD BE BETTER TO DO A CLEARLY
DEVELOPED FUZZY BOUNDARY MAP
THAT CAN'T BE REPLICATED IN
GE'EZ MAKE IT FUZZIER THAN IT.
>> YEAH, THAT'S WHAT I WAS
GOING TO SUGGEST IS CAN WE GET
A HIGHER QUALITY FUZZIER MAP
THAT BECAUSE IF WE'RE GOING TO
DO IT IN G.S. AND THEN THAT
NECESSARILY MEANS YOU'RE
DRAWING SHARP LINES THEN YOU'RE
BASICALLY DOING PARCEL BY
PARCEL MAPPING AND SO WE CAN'T
DO BOTH SIMULTANEOUSLY I GET
THE SPIRIT OF THE IDEA
OF HAVING FUZZY BOUNDARIES TO
SIGNAL A FLUIDITY.
IT MAKES SENSE TO ME THAN TO DO
A BETTER PREPARED AND PRESENTED
FUZZY BOUNDARY MAP THAT'S NOT
REPLICABLE IN JAIL.
>> YEAH, SO YEAH THERE ARE YEAH
IT'S COMPETING BECAUSE THE
PUBLIC WILL PROBABLY RESIST A
FUZZY OR MAP BECAUSE THAT IT'S
I HAVE NO IDEA NOW WHAT THIS IS
SUPPOSED TO CONVEY SO BUT I YOU
KNOW I'M I'M HAPPY FOR US TO
PICK THIS UP AGAIN.
SO I THINK STAFF YOU'VE HEARD
COMMISSIONER NORTON'S COMMENTS
AND IF YOU JUST SAY ONE THING
WOULD BE TO KIND OF DO TWO
VERSIONS NOT EVEN THE WHOLE
CITY BUT IN A PART AND KIND
OF SHOW THE SHOW THE TRADE THE
TRADE OFFS THAT MIGHT BE
HELPFUL.
>> I KNOW IT'S A BIT OF EXTRA
WORK BUT IT WILL JUST MAKE A
MAP AND I'LL POUR WATER ON IT
SO IT BLEEDS.
>> WE DO CARE ABOUT THIS.
WE ARE HAVING LOTS AND LOTS
OF CONVERSATIONS ABOUT THIS.
I DO NOT WANT THE PUBLIC TO
BELIEVE THAT THIS IS NOT
IMPORTANT.
IT IS VERY IMPORTANT.
>> OK PLANNER BENNETT, DO YOU
HAVE EVERYTHING YOU NEED FROM
US?
>> YES, EXCELLENT.
THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR JOINING
US AND FOR LEADING US THROUGH
THIS PROCESS THAT NOW TAKES US
TO ELEVEN BE A REVIEW
OF COMMISSION BYLAWS UH AT THE
ANNUAL ORGANIZATION MEETING ON
JULY 15TH, THE PLANNING
COMMISSION REQUESTED TO REVISIT
ITS BYLAWS TO ENSURE AN
ALIGNMENT WITH MEETING
MANAGEMENT AND PUBLIC COMMENT
FLEXIBILITY AND THIS AGENDA
ITEM IS PRESENTED AS AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR US TO HAVE THAT
CONVERSATION JUST THAT IT WAS
FLAGGED AS CHERVITZ INDICATED
AT THAT TIME I THINK WE WERE WE
ARE STILL IN THE EARLY STAGES
OF PUBLIC COMMENT AGENDA ITEMS
AS WELL AS PUBLIC HEARING
AGENDA ITEMS FOR MY OBSERVATION
I THINK IT DOES SEEM TO BE
FUNCTIONING QUITE WELL RIGHT
NOW BUT WE WANT IT TO BE FAIR
FOR THE COMMISSIONS DESIRE TO
RE REVISIT IT AT THIS TIME.
>> ARE THERE ANY CONCERNS,
QUESTIONS, COMMENTS?
>> ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU, MR. LEINERT.
THAT THEN TAKES US ON TO AGENDA
ITEM NUMBER TWELVE PUBLIC
COMMENT ON ANY ISSUE.
THIS IS A SECOND OPPORTUNITY
FOR INDIVIDUALS TO SPEAK UP TO
THREE MINUTES ON ANY ISSUE.
WE'LL HEAR FIRST FROM THOSE WHO
ARE PRESENT WITH US IN THE
CHAMBERS, THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK REMOTELY
PRESS STAR NINE IF ON PHONE OR
USE THE PHRASE HAND FEATURE IF
ON ZOOME FOR PHONE ACCESS DIAL
EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE
THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND
INTER MEETING ID NINE SEVEN
SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR ONE
TWO TWO SIX.
>> CITY STAFF WILL IDENTIFY
CALLERS BY THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF THEIR PHONE NUMBER OR
BY NAME IF ON ZOOM YOU WILL
HEAR AN ANNOUNCEMENT WHEN IT'S
YOUR TURN TO SPEAK PLEASE
ENSURE YOU'RE IN A QUIET AREA
AND PLEASE MUTE ANY BACKGROUND
NOISE FOR ALL PARTICIPANTS.
>> PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT IN THE
CHAMBERS WHO WOULD LIKE TO
ADDRESS THE COMMISSION AT THIS
TIME
?
>> HELLO AGAIN KIRK WESTFALL
THIRTY FIVE FIVE TURTUR PLACE.
I ENJOYED THE DISCUSSION.
THANKS FOR BRINGING UP SOME
OF THE MAP ISSUES.
I THINK THERE'S THERE'S A
STRUCTURAL DIFFICULTY IN MAKING
COMMENTS BECAUSE YOU CAN'T
REALLY UPLOAD IMAGES THROUGH
THE WEB PORTAL.
I DON'T THINK SO.
I'D BE UP FOR SUGGESTION AS TO
HOW TO BEST GIVE INPUT ON THAT
AND MY RECOLLECTION IS THAT I
BELIEVE FOLKS HAVE PREPARED
PARCEL BY PARCEL MAPS FOR
NEIGHBORHOOD DISCUSSIONS.
FOR EXAMPLE, I THINK IN BERN'S
PARK WHERE SOME PEOPLE WERE
CONCERNED ABOUT WHERE THE
TRANSITION MIGHT GO SO I THINK
THE SHIP HAS SAILED IN TERMS
OF WHETHER THIS IS PARCEL BY
PARCEL BECAUSE EVEN THOUGH THE
MAP LOOKS FUZZY, I THINK YOU
KNOW, IN TERMS OF OWNERSHIP AND
STUFF YOU CAN TRY TO DELINEATE
WHAT'S THERE AND I BELIEVE
THERE ARE FAINT PARCEL LINES ON
THE MAP IF I'M NOT MISTAKEN.
>> SO I THINK IT'S PART OF MY
PARCEL MAPS ARE BEING PREPARED
FOR CERTAIN PRIVILEGED
NEIGHBORHOODS.
YOU SHOULD KEEP THAT IN MIND IN
TERMS OF HOW EXACT WE ARE WITH
THE MAP IN GENERAL THERE IS
SOME LANGUAGE ISSUES THAT I
HOPE YOU GUYS CAN TAKE UP IN
YOUR NEXT MEETING AND THAT HAS
TO DO WITH DISPLACEMENT AND
PROTECTION OF VULNERABLE
POPULAR NATIONS, VULNERABLE
RESIDENTS AND I THINK IT
REINFORCES US I THINK A COMMON
MISCONCEPTION IT SOUNDS NICE
BUT I THINK IT REINFORCES THIS
COMMON MISCONCEPTION THAT IF WE
JUST DON'T UP ZONE PLACES THAT
HAVE MORE AFFORDABLE RELATIVELY
HOUSING THAT SOMEHOW THAT WILL
STAY MORE AFFORDABLE AND THAT
IS I THINK COUNTERPRODUCTIVE
AND JUST INCONSISTENT WITH
DATA.
SO I JUST ALERT YOU TO AND I
EMAILED THIS AND IT SHOULD BE
IN THE NEXT MEETING PACKET THAT
I THINK LANGUAGE LIKE THAT
COULD BE PROBLEMATIC IN THE
FUTURE AND THAT'S IT.
>> THANKS.
THANK YOU, MR. WESTFALL.
MR. MUNRO.
>> THANKS, GUYS.
GREG MONROE BENDING ROAD.
>> OK, SO I APPRECIATE
ACKNOWLEDGING THE STARS THE
LAST ASSEMBLY AND THE CPI'S I
WOULD APPRECIATE IT LIKE AN
ANNUAL REPORT OUT.
>> I MEAN JUST SKEPTICS LIKE ME
THAT MAKE ME A CONVERT ME
RIGHT.
SHOW ME THAT THIS IS WORKING.
BUT I WANTED TO TALK ABOUT THE
GENIUS THING AND YOU KNOW, IF
THERE'S NO GENIUS, I THINK THAT
MEANS THAT THESE BOUNDARIES ARE
NOT FINAL AND THEY CAN STILL BE
MODIFIED WHICH I APPRECIATE
.
I THINK THAT'S WHAT I'M HEARING
AND LIKE I UNDERSTAND YOU GUYS
ARE DOING YOUR BEST.
I UNDERSTAND THIS IS A POLICY
DOCUMENT BUT I ALSO KIND
OF WANT TO BRING THE
PERSPECTIVE OF RESIDENTS ON
JUST HOW SOME OF THIS IS
LANDING.
>> AND YOU KNOW, I LIKE I LOGIT
THE PARCEL YOU GUYS DISCUSSED
EARLIER THE PLYMOUTH ROAD I DID
NOT KNOW THAT WAS TRANSITION
BECAUSE IT HAD THE WORD
PLYMOUTH ROAD WRITTEN OVER IT
AND I NEVER SAW IT AND I'VE
SPENT A LOT OF TIME LOOKING AT
THIS MAP.
>> RIGHT.
SO AND I THINK THIS KIND
OF FALLS INTO LIKE WHAT I WOULD
CHARACTERIZE AS SORT OF LIKE
THIS AMORPHOUS THING THAT'S
PRESENTED TO US AND CAN KIND
OF FEEL LIKE A DEFENSE
MECHANISM SOMETIMES THAT YOU
KNOW, I UNDERSTAND WE DON'T
WANT TO CLEARLY COMMUNICATE
SOMETHING THAT IS UNDEFINED,
THAT IT'S FLEXIBLE, THAT IT HAS
BOUNDARIES BUT THIS IS THE PLAN
AND WE CLEARLY WE'VE TALKED
ABOUT SPECIFIC AREAS AND
PARCELS.
SO THERE'S SOME THERE'S
SOMETHING THERE TO DISCUSS.
RIGHT.
AND I JUST THINK RESIDENTS
OF THE CITY DESERVE SOMETHING
TO LOOK AT AND UNDERSTAND
EXACTLY WHAT THE CURRENT
BOUNDARIES OF THAT FLEXIBILITY
ARE BECAUSE OTHERWISE SOMETIMES
IT FEELS LIKE, YOU KNOW, HEY,
WE CAN'T CRITIQUE IT.
WE CAN'T SHAPE IT.
WE CAN'T BE CONCERNED BY IT
BECAUSE IT'S NOT A THING WHEN
IT IS VERY MUCH A THING RIGHT.
AND IT IS CONSEQUENTIAL AND IT
IS REAL AND IT IS DETERMINISTIC
.
SO LIKE LIKE I GET EVEN EVEN A
LOT OF SOMEBODY THING I
UNDERSTAND I THINK FOR A LOT
OF FOLKS IT'S CONFUSING WHAT IS
LAND USE, WHAT ISN'T, WHAT IS
IN THE PLAN, WHAT ISN'T, WHAT
ZONING UDC AND I UNDERSTAND
THAT THIS IS YOUR PROFESSION OR
YOU'RE IN THIS APPOINTED ROLE
AND IT'S YOU KNOW, LIKE I WORK
IN TECH LIKE I UNDERSTAND WHEN
PEOPLE COME IN AND BE LIKE WHY
CAN'T I JUST DO THIS AND YOU
KNOW, YOU DON'T KNOW WHAT
YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT AND YOU
KNOW AND SO I REALLY, TRULY
APPRECIATE THAT.
>> BUT I DON'T KNOW I WAS JUST
ASKING FOR A LITTLE BIT MORE
BECAUSE EVEN ME AS THE LAYMAN I
DON'T UNDERSTAND WHY WE CAN'T
PUT MORE AGGRESSIVE LANGUAGE IN
THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
RIGHT.
AND COMMISSIONER NORTON, I
APPRECIATE YOU ARTICULATING MY
CONCERNS RIGHT.
THAT I THOUGHT WE HAVE STUDIED
THIS AND WE DO KNOW THAT IT IS
ACTUALLY PERNICIOUS.
RIGHT.
AND IT DOESN'T ACTUALLY BRING
ABOUT THE AFFORDABILITY GOALS
THAT WE WANT TO WRITE.
AND SO I DON'T KNOW THERE'S
JUST SOME THINGS THAT IT'S
CONFUSING TO ME WHAT GOES IN
AND WHAT WHAT DOESN'T AND I'M
NOT NECESSARILY SAYING THAT I
HAVE THE RIGHT ANSWER.
>> I KNOW BETTER THAN WILL BUT
YEAH, I THINK THAT'S WHAT I
WANT TO SAY.
>> SO THANK YOU.
THANK YOU, MR. MAURO.
OK, DO WE HAVE ANY OH NO.
>> WE HAVE ONE MORE IN-PERSON
COMMENTOR.
>> HI ALEX LO 202 HILL
BOULEVARD.
I'VE GOT A FEW COMMENTS TO UH
JUST ABOUT THE CONVERSATION AND
THEN WENT ON TO THE FIRST ONE
IS ABOUT STARS COMMERCIALIZING
RESIDENTIAL HOUSES.
>> UM ALL RENTALS DO THAT IF
YOU DON'T IF YOU DON'T WANT
HOUSING TO BE COMMERCIALIZED
THEN THE THING YOU NEED TO DO
IS BAN RENTALS AND BAN PRIVATE
OWNERSHIP OF HOUSES.
OTHERWISE IT'S GOING TO
NATURALLY BE COMMERCIALIZED AS
SOON AS PEOPLE START SELLING
THEIR HOMES TO EACH OTHER.
>> SO I THINK THAT AS SAYING
THEY ACHIEVE AS COMMERCIALIZED
AS IS REALLY QUITE A STRETCH.
I ALSO WILL SAY IS SOMEONE IN
ENGINEERING I'M A BIG FAN
OF DASHBOARD'S.
>> I REALLY AM PLEASED MORE
DASHBOARD'S THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU MR LE.
ALL RIGHT.
SEEING NO MORE IN PERSON
INTEREST DO WE HAVE ONLINE
PARTICIPANTS MR LEONARD?
>> WE DO.
>> OH WE GOT SOME WONDERFUL
MARK YOU CAN ADDRESS THE
PLANNING QUESTION FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES.
>> HELLO.
UH MAX CALLING IN FROM NOT HOME
TRAVELING FOR WORK SO I MISSED
MOST OF THE DISCUSSION AND I
LOOK FORWARD TO CATCHING UP
TOMORROW.
BUT IN REGARDS TO SOME OF THE
CONVERSATION AROUND FUZZY MAPS,
I JUST WANT TO SAY THAT WHEN
YOU GET AROUND TO DOING THE
ZONING I IMAGINE THERE WILL BE
A BIT OF A CHICKEN AND EGG
SITUATION IN WHICH YOU'RE BOTH
DISCUSSING THE TECHNICALITIES
OF THE ZONING LIKE THE SETBACKS
AND THE FAA LIMITS AND ALL
OF THESE DETAILS WHILE ALSO
TALKING ABOUT THE NEIGHBORHOOD
CONTEXT AND WHICH PARCEL'S FIT
WITH WHICH SPECIFICS OF ZONING.
AND SO I REALLY THINK THAT AS
YOU'VE TALKED ABOUT THE
FUZZINESS IN THE MAP MAKES
SENSE NOW IT REALLY DOES MAKE
SENSE.
THIS IS A GUIDANCE DOCUMENT AND
LAYS OUT THE KIND OF GUIDING
PRINCIPLES BEHIND WHAT FUTURE
ZONING MIGHT LOOK LIKE.
BUT YOU'RE GOING TO END HAVING
THESE BACK AND FORTH
CONVERSATIONS WHERE YOU'RE
TALKING ABOUT WHICH PARCELS
SHOULD THE NEW ZONING APPLY TO
AND WHAT DOES THAT NEW ZONING
ACTUALLY REQUIRE.
AND SO IT DOESN'T MAKE SENSE TO
ME RIGHT NOW TO HAVE A DETAILED
MAP THAT LAYS OUT THESE LAND
USE DISTRICTS THAT WILL COME
LATER AND THOSE CONVERSATIONS
ABOUT WHICH PARCELS, WHICH
ZONING HAVE TO HAPPEN IN
PARALLEL TO THE CONVERSATION
ABOUT WHAT IS THAT ZONING.
SO KEEP UP THE GOOD WORK.
IT FEELS LIKE WE'VE BEEN HAVING
THESE CONVERSATIONS FOR WELL
OVER TWO YEARS AT THIS POINT
AND THESE ASKED WELL NOW WE'RE
INTO THE SIXTY THREE DAYS FOR
THE LAST SIXTY THREE DAYS FEEL
LIKE THEY'RE GOING TO TAKE EVEN
LONGER BUT I'M REALLY EXCITED
FOR THE PLAN TO WRAP UP AND GET
INTO THE EXCITING DETAILED WORK
OF ZONING SO WE CAN GET TO THE
REAL ACTUALLY BUILDING ENOUGH
HOUSING FOR ALL THE PEOPLE WHO
WANT TO LIVE HERE AND I WELCOME
MORE NEIGHBORS SO THANK YOU.
THANK YOU COLOR WITH A PHONE
NUMBER ENDING WITH FIVE THREE
FOUR YOU CAN UNMUTED ADDRESS
THE PLANNING COMMISSION FOR UP
TO THREE MINUTES.
GOOD EVENING AGAIN.
THIS IS TOM SOLBERG'S ON THE
SHORT TERM RENTAL ISSUE I
BELIEVE PEOPLE DO NOT REALLY
UNDERSTAND THIS ISSUE AND THE
IMPACT IT WILL HAVE IF YOU LET
THE GENIE OUT OF THE BOTTLE
YOU'VE TAKEN AN AREA C OUR
POLICY FOR EXAMPLE THAT IN THE
TRANSITION CATEGORY OF NON
OWNER OCCUPIED SHORT TERM
RENTALS WERE PROHIBITED IN OUR
FORESE BEFORE AND NOW ALL OF A
SUDDEN IT'S UNKNOWN WHAT'S
GOING TO HAPPEN.
YOU'RE GOING TO LOOK AT THEM
LIMITS LATER.
>> THAT'S REALLY NOT
APPROPRIATE.
>> THIS NEEDS TO BE DONE NOW IN
THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN WHEN YOU
WRITE THE ZONING LAW ALSO YOU
REALLY SHOULD HAVE LEGAL TAKE A
LOOK AT IT.
YOU'RE THROWING OUT THE
EXISTING ZONING CODES AND
CREATING NEW ZONING CODE .
>> WHAT LAWS APPLY AND DON'T
APPLY AND HOW DO YOU NEED TO
REWRITE THEM?
>> AND I THINK YOU'RE A LITTLE
IN OVER YOUR HEADS HERE
DEEPWATER FOR EXAMPLE, YOU HAVE
A TRANSITION CATEGORY PROPERTY
.
IT'S A TWO STORY APARTMENT
BUILDING RIGHT DOWN NEAR ARGO
LIVERY IN THE CASCADES.
SHOULD THAT BE ALL SHORT TERM
RENTAL?
THIS IS A POLICY DECISION.
THE PROBLEM IS WE HAVE A
POLITICAL DOCUMENT HERE, NOT A
POLICY DOCUMENT.
COMPREHENSIVE PLANS DO NOT
NECESSARILY ISSUE ALL DETAILS
AND IN THIS CASE YOU'VE MADE A
POLITICAL DECISION TO SAY WE'RE
PUTTING ALMOST ALL THE DETAILS
LATER WHEN YOU WRITE THE ZONING
CODE THAT IS NOT A RULE THAT IS
A POLITICAL CHOICE THAT YOU ARE
MAKING WITH THIS DOCUMENT TO
ISSUE PUTTING IN DETAILS.
NOW THAT IS NOT DONE IN A LOT
OF OTHER COMPREHENSIVE PLANS.
THEY DO HAVE MUCH MORE DETAIL
THAN THIS ONE.
SO YOU'RE WALKING INTO A
PROBLEM ESPECIALLY IN THE SHORT
TERM RENTALS WITH THE
CONSEQUENCES ARE BECAUSE OF THE
NATURE OF THE CHANGES THAT
YOU'RE MAKING THIS
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN IS SUPPOSED
TO BE THE VISION FOR THE
COMMUNITY IF YOU HAVE A VERY
SMALL PERCENTAGE OF THE PEOPLE
IN THIS CITY EVEN UNDERSTANDING
WHAT YOU'RE DOING OR MAYBE
THEY'RE IN A RESIDENTIAL OR
RESIDENTIAL TRANSITION CATEGORY
AND THEY DON'T EVEN KNOW HOW
THEY'RE VISION, WHAT IS THEIR
VISION?
>> THEIR VISION IS SO BLURRED
BY LACK OF DETAIL AND NOW WE'RE
BLURRING THE LINES WE USE THE
RUBRIC FOR EXAMPLE ALL WOMEN
ARE TO GO TO RESIDENTIAL ARE
THREE OR FOUR GO TO TRANSITION
.
AND SO YOU DO HAVE SOME HARD
LINES ON THESE MAPS.
I UNDERSTAND WHY YOU'RE SAYING
IT'S FUZZY FOR A REASON BUT FOR
THE MOST PART THE WAY YOU
GENERATED IT THERE ARE PRETTY
HARD LINES ON MOST PARTS OF THE
CITY AND PEOPLE DO CARE.
>> THIRTY MORE SECONDS BECAUSE
THEY DO CARE IF THEY'RE IN ONE
CATEGORY OR A DIFFERENT
CATEGORY AND PEOPLE DENHA HAVE
A RIGHT TO HAVE SOME IDEA IF
THIS IS THE COMMUNITY'S VISION
FOR THE FUTURE OF OUR NEIGHBOR.
WHAT THAT MEANS TO THEM
INDIVIDUALLY AND TO A WHOLE
NEIGHBORHOOD IN THE SHORT TERM
RENTALS IS JUST A DISASTROUS
PROBLEM WAITING TO HAPPEN.
I REALLY WISH YOU WOULD ASK
LEGAL ABOUT SOME OF THE ISSUES
THAT WALKING INTO RIGHT HERE.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU, MR. STOLLBERG.
>> LUIS VASQUEZ, YOU HAVE THREE
MINUTES TO ADDRESS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION.
THANK YOU.
GREETINGS.
PLANNING COMMISSIONERS AND CITY
STAFF LUIS VASQUEZ NINE ZERO
NINE PARDON DRIVE IN UPPER
LOWER TOWN.
THANK YOU ONCE AGAIN FOR YOUR
COMMITMENT AND YOUR TIME AND
YOUR BRAVERY ACTUALLY IN
TACKLING ALL THESE ISSUES AND
DISCUSSING ALL THESE ISSUES IN
FRONT OF A PUBLIC THAT GOSH
MAYBE DOESN'T UNDERSTAND.
THERE'S ONLY LIKE APPARENTLY
FROM THE PREVIOUS CALLER
THERE'S ONLY A SELECT FEW WHO
REALLY, TRULY UNDERSTAND AND
EVERY SINGLE NUANCE ABOUT
ZONING, SHORT TERM RENTALS AND
ET CETERA, ET CETERA, ET CETERA
BLAH BLAH BLAH.
BUT
I WAS STRUCK PARTICULARLY
BY RERAISING RERAISING THE
ISSUE ABOUT THE THE DIRECTION
GIVEN TO YOU BY COUNCIL TO ONLY
MAKE TRIPLEX IS BY RIGHT.
I'M OF THE OPINION THAT IT
SHOULD BE AT LEAST JUAN PLEXUS
AND SIX PLEXUS THAT CAN BE
BUILT BY RIGHT IN IN OUR CITY
AND THAT WOULD GO A LONG WAY
TOWARDS HELPING TO ALLEVIATE
THE HOUSING CRISIS THAT EXISTS
IN ANN ARBOR.
>> SO THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
CONTINUE YOUR WORK.
I LOOK FORWARD TO THE DETAILS
AS THEY COME ALONG.
>> THANKS.
GOOD NIGHT.
>> THANK YOU, MR. VASQUEZ.
NO OTHER CALLERS WITH THAT.
I WILL CLOSE THE PUBLIC COMMENT
AND MOVE US TO COMMISSION
PROPOSED BUSINESS.
>> IS THERE ANY O YOUR YOUR
STAFF I DON'T KNOW PROPOSE I
JUST FOR TO FOR THE COMMISSION
AND ANYBODY WHO'S WATCHING I
JUST WANT TO CLARIFY EVERY
ORDINANCE THAT IS REVIEWED AND
CONSIDERED BY THE CITY COUNCIL
IS OF COURSE REVIEWED BY THE
CITY'S ROBUST CITY ATTORNEY'S
OFFICE.
SO I YOU KNOW OBVIOUSLY PEOPLE
HAVE DIFFERENT PERSPECTIVES ON
WHAT THOSE REGULATIONS SHOULD
BE BUT I JUST WANTED TO BE
CLEAR THAT ANY ORDINANCES IS
ABSOLUTELY REVIEWED BY LEGAL
COUNSEL.
THANK YOU FOR THAT, MR.
COMMISSIONER.
CAN I ASK YOU TO MAKE ANOTHER
CLARIFICATION WHICH IS THAT
THERE'S NO LIKE LIMBO TIME WHEN
ZONING GETS THROWN AWAY AND WE
DON'T KNOW WHAT'S HAPPENING AND
NEW RULES HAVE NOT BEEN
ESTABLISHED AS A REMINDER AND
THIS IS SOMETHING THAT IS
CHALLENGING.
BUT WE'VE BEEN AT THIS FOR TWO
AND A HALF YEARS AND THE
ADOPTION THIS PLAN NOTHING
CHANGES OUR CURRENT REGULATORY
FRAMEWORK REMAINS AND IT IS
THEN OUR JOB TO CONSIDER
MODIFICATIONS TO OUR LAND USE
OR ZONING OUR ORDINANCES TO
REALIZE THAT GOAL.
SO THERE IS NO LIMBO PERIOD
WHERE THERE THERE IS PORTIONS
OF THE CITY THAT ARE
UNREGULATED, CORRECT?
>> I DID HAVE ONE SMALL
COMMISSION PROPOSED THANKS.
SO I HAD THE OPPORTUNITY TO
MEET WITH PLANNER BENNET TO ASK
SOME QUESTIONS ABOUT THE
TRANSITION ZONING AS IT NEARS
RESIDENTIAL AND AS A RESULT
OF THAT WE'RE WORKING ON A
COMMUNICATION TO COME BACK TO
THIS BODY TO TRY TO CLARIFY ALL
OF THE STEPS OF THE PROCESS
WHERE WE ARE IN THE PROCESS.
WHAT'S COMING NEXT, HOW PEOPLE
CAN EXPECT IT.
YOUR COMMENTS TONIGHT, MR.
MONROE, I HAD YOUR NAME WRITE
ALL NIGHT LONG ARE IN FRONT
OF MINE.
>> WE ARE ALL OF US ARE TALKING
ABOUT THESE THINGS.
>> WE'RE LISTENING VERY
CAREFULLY TO WHAT YOU ARE
SHARING AND WE ARE TRYING TO
RESOLVE IT.
AND THE THING I WANT TO SAY
BOTH TO YOU AND TO THE VIEWING
PUBLIC IS THE MAJORITY OF US
ARE VOLUNTEERS WHO SIT HERE AND
SO WE HAVE JOBS, WE HAVE
FAMILIES, WE HAVE OBLIGATIONS
BUT WE DO TAKE THIS APPOINTMENT
SERIOUSLY AND SO WE ARE
SPENDING TIME TO REASSURE YOU.
AND SO MR. LEONARD IS
ABSOLUTELY CORRECT.
THE COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN
DOES NOT CHANGE THE UDC BUT
ONCE THE COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE
PLAN IS PASSED, I IMAGINE
PROPERTY OWNERS WILL PETITION
CITY PLANNING FOR REZONING.
>> SO HE IS ABSOLUTELY CORRECT.
IT DOESN'T CHANGE ANYTHING BUT
THERE WILL BE ACTION THAT WILL
COME BEFORE THE REGULATORY UDC
CHANGES OCCUR.
>> AND SO THOSE ARE THE KINDS
OF THINGS THAT WE WANT TO
CLARIFY THAT WE WANT TO HELP
THE PUBLIC RECOGNIZE THAT WE
HEAR YOU WHEN WE SAY ONE THING
BUT YOU FEEL SOMETHING
DIFFERENT.
>> WE WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT
WE'RE ALL ON THE SAME PAGE
TALKING ABOUT THE SAME THINGS
CORRECTLY AND AND I I
UNDERSTAND YOUR CONCERN AROUND
THIS MAP IN IN MY CONVERSATION
WE HAD A OVERLAY MAP IN GSI
THAT LOOKED AT THE ONE THAT
SORT OF HELPED WHERE ALL THE
BOUNDARIES WERE AND I WAS LIKE
OH, COULD WE DO SOMETHING LIKE
THIS FOR A TRANSITION AND PART
OF THE ANSWER TO THAT QUESTION
IS NOT YET BECAUSE WE DON'T
ACTUALLY KNOW WHAT THE
STANDARDS ARE GOING TO BE IN
THAT DISTRICT AS IT BECOMES A
ZONE.
>> SO WE CAN'T AUTOMATICALLY
JUST CREATE THAT MAP AND THEN
PRESENT IT TO YOU.
>> SO I DON'T THINK IT IS THE
CASE AT THE TABLE THAT WE ARE
TRYING TO OBFUSCATE ANYTHING.
>> IT'S THAT WE WE'RE WORKING
IN A PROCESS AND I'M A FELLOW
TECH PERSON.
>> SO YOU KNOW, THIS IS A THIS
IS A PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT REPORT
AND WE'VE GOT A LOT OF STEPS
AND WE'VE GOT TO TALK TO A LOT
OF PEOPLE BEFORE WE CAN
ACTUALLY EVEN GET TO THE
IMPLEMENTATION AND THE CODAY
AND THE KUAI BEFORE WE RELEASE
IT TO THE GENERAL PUBLIC.
>> YEAH, COMMISSIONER, JUST
REALLY QUICKLY, THANK YOU TO
STAFF FOR ALL OF YOUR WORK ON
THIS.
THANK YOU TO THE COMMISSIONERS
AND MORE MOST IMPORTANTLY,
THANK TO THE PUBLIC WHO'S
SPOKEN HERE.
IT'S ALWAYS TOUGH TO SPEAK IN
PUBLIC SO SO THANK YOU TO
EVERYONE THAT SHOWS UP GIVES
THEIR FEEDBACK BECAUSE WE ARE
LISTENING.
>> SO THANK YOU TO ALL
COMMISSIONER COMMISSIONERS.
>> OH, OK.
ALL RIGHT.
I WILL ENTERTAIN A MOTION TO
ADJOURN MOVE BY COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER ADAMS.
>> WE ARE ADJOURNED